{"Accounting": {"ACC201": {"title": "Financial Accounting", "description": "Financial Accounting establishes the rules and regulations for preparing accounting information used by internal and external sources to evaluate the financial health of an organization.  This course will develop the student's ability to interpret financial accounting information, to communicate this information and to understand the accounting system that produces this information.", "credits": "3"}, "ACC202": {"title": "Managerial Accounting", "description": "Managerial Accounting will explore the financial impact of alternative business decisions and the financial benefits of new business practices. After completing this course, the student will understand how accounting and other productivity information can be used to assess the past and improve the future performance of a business by giving managers essential information they need to make more informed decisions.", "credits": "3"}, "ACC207": {"title": "Cost Accounting", "description": "This course examines the accounting concepts and practices used in the recording, classifying and reporting of cost data.  An analysis is made of the behavior of costs and its use to management in the planning and control process.  Budgeting, standard cost, job order and process are examined, along with special problems in cost accounting.", "credits": "3"}, "ACC307": {"title": "Intermediate Accounting I", "description": "Review introductory concepts including the accounting cycle, journal and adjusting entries. Learn to address more intricate accounting scenarios such as recording more complex financial statement elements. Apply theoretical frameworks and various accounting standards and regulations to the proper preparation of financial statements.", "credits": "3"}, "ACC308": {"title": "Intermediate Accounting II", "description": "Apply accounting rules and methodologies for increasingly complex transactions and elements to create more extensive financial statements. Assess a company\u2019s financial performance using appropriate ratio analysis to support informed decision making.", "credits": "3"}, "ACC309": {"title": "Intermediate Accounting III", "description": "Examine reporting and disclosure requirements for complex accounting topics. Analyze the financial impact of changes to an organization based on factors such as stock characteristics, comprehensive income and retained earnings, types of leases and post-retirement benefits. Consider correct disclosure for error corrections, accounting changes and adjustments. Gain perspective on communicating financial information to internal and external stakeholders for informing company decisions.", "credits": "3"}, "ACC312": {"title": "International Managerial Accounting", "description": "The study of foreign currencies and exchange risk management, global organization and control, planning and performance evaluation in multinational enterprises, multinational taxation, global financial statement analysis, and transparency and disclosure in global environment to gain an appreciation and understanding of international managerial accounting.  The above studies will relate to international accounting and reporting considerations, standards, and responsibilities.", "credits": "3"}, "ACC315": {"title": "Accounting Systems Applications", "description": "This course introduces the student to various commercial accounting software application programs.  The student will have hands-on experience with actual computer preparation of accounting transactions using accounting software in general ledger, financial statement preparation, accounts receivable, accounts payable, cost control and allocation and budgeting.  It is assumed that students have a basic working knowledge of personal computers. Programming knowledge is not necessary.", "credits": "3"}, "ACC325": {"title": "Accounting for Nonprofit Organizations", "description": "Learn how financial information is used to manage and make decisions in a nonprofit organization. Examine generally accepted accounting principles and practices specific to not-for-profit organizations including structure and governance, legal requirements, financial reporting, budgeting, and tax filing.", "credits": "3"}, "ACC330": {"title": "Federal Taxation I", "description": "Learn about current US tax laws and the Internal Revenue Code (IRC), as well as the relevant source documents, associated with federal tax returns for individuals. Apply the appropriate tax laws as required by law in relation to the specific circumstances and tax liabilities of individuals. Prepare federal tax returns and communicate various tax return information to individuals.", "credits": "3"}, "ACC331": {"title": "Federal Taxation II", "description": "A detailed presentation is made of the theory and practice applicable to the preparation of federal income tax returns for S corporations, C corporations and partnerships.", "credits": "3"}, "ACC335": {"title": "Tax Factors for Business Decisions", "description": "This course focuses on tax basics that apply to all forms of business organizations.  It stresses the importance of tax concepts within the framework of financial reporting and emphasizes differences between tax and financial accounting theory and electronic applications in the tax area.  The course covers general concepts, underlying policies, a comparison of tax rules to GAAP, basic compliance obligations, the role of the tax advisor and current tax issues.  The Internal Revenue Code, comprehensive research matters of tax law, the computer online service research will be explored.", "credits": "3"}, "ACC340": {"title": "Controllership", "description": "This course examines the accounting and  interpersonal skills necessary to manage an efficient accounting department.  These skills include processing accounting transactions,  preparing financial statements, recommending improvement in financial operating policies, and monitoring the financial activities in other  departments.  Basic areas of subject coverage include cash management, inventory valuation,  operating budgeting, taxes, insurance, and capital budgeting.  Also included will be the use of  electronic spreadsheets for financial analysis, client-server computing applications,  target costing, disaster recovery planning,  activity based costing, outsourcing, and  managing in a growth environment.", "credits": "3"}, "ACC345": {"title": "Financial Statement Analysis/ Business Valuation", "description": "Explore the theories, tools, and techniques used to perform fundamental valuations and analyze publicly traded companies. Evaluate a corporation\u2019s future prospects through the computation of free cash flows, interpretation of notes to financial statements, and the integration of information provided in various SEC filings.", "credits": "3"}, "ACC405": {"title": "Advanced Accounting", "description": "Advanced Accounting includes a comprehensive examination and analysis of the accounting principles and procedures that are applicable to special areas of business.  The topics covered are partnerships, consignments, installment sales, branches, business combinations, consolidations, bankruptcy, foreign exchange, and estates and trusts.  Particular emphasis is placed on problem solving.", "credits": "3"}, "ACC411": {"title": "Auditing Principles", "description": "This course presents an in-depth examination of audit programs and procedures.  It emphasizes the review of internal controls as required during an audit engagement, as well as the considerations pertaining to both clients and auditors.", "credits": "3"}, "ACC421": {"title": "Auditing and Forensic Accounting", "description": "This course focuses on the investigation, detection, documentation, and prevention of accounting frauds, stock frauds, and employee theft and embezzlement.  White-collar crime involving fraud has mushroomed.  Much of the responsibility for detecting fraud has been assumed by the accounting profession.  Accountants need to learn how to investigate and recognize fraud within an organization and how to implement the latest techniques for controlling it.", "credits": "3"}, "ACC423": {"title": "Detection/Prevention Fraudulent Financial Statements", "description": "This second course in forensic accounting and fraud examination examines the various types of fraud and its impact on the financial information presented.  This course identifies common fraud schemes and scams.  Participants in this course will learn how to review, detect and investigate possible financial statement fraud.  Various techniques will be used to explore substantive analytical procedures and to assess the risks of financial statement fraud.", "credits": "3"}, "ACC425": {"title": "Interview Techniques/Legal Aspects Fraud", "description": "This third course in forensic accounting and fraud examination will introduce participants to interview principles and techniques.  Participants will be exposed to some of the legal aspects pertaining to the identification and prosecution of fraud.", "credits": "3"}, "ACC427": {"title": "Investigating with Computers", "description": "This course focuses on the importance of technology as it relates to modern crime. During the journey of this course, students are presented with topics covering an overview of computer crimes, locations of digital evidence, fundamentals of working with data, an overview of legal aspects of computer crime, and how to present findings at the conclusion of a computer based investigation. Topics include identity theft, the insider threat, locating digital evidence, working with data, legal aspects, and finally presenting investigative findings. Students review case examples of cyber-crime, research relevant current events, and identify best practices when conducting a cyber-investigation.", "credits": "3"}, "ACC490": {"title": "Accounting Internship", "description": "This program provides an opportunity for a student to work in public, private or governmental accounting in a supervised and structured work experience.", "credits": "0 - 15"}, "ACC550": {"title": "Cost Accounting", "description": "This course provides a comprehensive study of the concepts, procedures, and practices of accounting systems that record, classify, and report cost data. These systems are designed to aid in the cost-effective operation of for-profit and non-profit organizations. This course focuses on cost behaviors, alternative cost systems, and accounting tools for planning and control. Additional topics studied would include relevant cost analysis for management decisions, cost/ revenue allocation methods, inventory management, and transfer pricing.", "credits": "3"}, "ACC610": {"title": "Financial Reporting I", "description": "This course examines financial accounting theories and practices and emphasizes asset and liability, measurement and reporting.", "credits": "3"}, "ACC620": {"title": "Financial Reporting II", "description": "This course is a continuation of ACC 610.  Topics include stockholders' equity, income measurement, income taxes, pensions, leases and statements of changes in financial positions.", "credits": "3"}, "ACC630": {"title": "Financial Reporting III", "description": "This course examines such advanced accounting topics as partnerships, consolidations, insolvencies, estates and trusts.", "credits": "3"}, "ACC640": {"title": "Auditing", "description": "This course is a study of the concepts and methods of professional auditing.", "credits": "3"}, "ACC645": {"title": "Advanced Auditing", "description": "This course is designed to introduce the student who is familiar with financial auditing principles to advanced auditing topics including 1) beyond the financial audit, 2) when audits go wrong, and 3) behavioral and ethical concerns for auditors. The course utilizes a combination of case studies, student presentations, and reviews of current auditing research and professional materials to assist students in increasing their knowledge of auditing. This is a reading intensive course.", "credits": "3"}, "ACC646": {"title": "Introduction to Forensic Accounting/ Fraud Exam", "description": "This course will develop the student's understanding of what forensic accounting and fraud examination is and how it pertains to both civil and criminal matters.  The student will gain a basic understanding of the characteristics of fraud, fraud prevention and detection, investigative techniques, asset recovery, and the use of information technology in this interesting and growing profession.", "credits": "3"}, "ACC660": {"title": "Controllership", "description": "This comprehensive course is designed to help financial managers master the technical, financial, accounting and people management skills necessary for the job of a corporate controller.", "credits": "3"}, "ACC665": {"title": "Governmental and Non-Profit Accounting", "description": "Learn to apply procedures in accounting, financial reporting and budgeting for governmental and non-profit organizations. Prepare, analyze, and interpret these entities' financial statements. Gain experience in how to record assets, liabilities, equity, revenue, and expenditures based on standards set by the Governmental Accounting Standards Board.", "credits": "3"}, "ACC675": {"title": "Control/Audit of Accounting Info System", "description": "New auditing and quality control standards adopted by the PCAOB and the AICPA require auditors to have adequate technical training and must understand the role information technologies play in the maintenance and effective internal control of financial information. Knowledge of EDP auditing and control is particularly important in complying with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX), which requires auditors to attest to the standards of internal control and any material weaknesses disclosed by senior management.  This course will give auditors the knowledge they need to comply with SOX Section 404 by allowing them to test the process rather than just the product of the financial information system. Select curricular standards set by ISACA will be addressed to assess and to improve auditing and internal control practices.", "credits": "3"}, "ACC680": {"title": "International Accounting", "description": "This course focuses on accounting in the global marketplace and reviews international accounting standards for financial reporting and introduces and compares taxation and financial and managerial accounting issues in the international environment. NOTE: ACC 680 can be used as an international business elective.", "credits": "3"}, "ACC690": {"title": "Advanced Topics in Financial Reporting", "description": "This course is an examination of advanced topics in accounting, including SEC reporting, corporations in financial difficulty, multinational accounting and additional consolidation reporting issues not covered in Financial Reporting II.", "credits": "3"}, "ACC691": {"title": "Detection and Prevention of Fraudulent Financial Statements", "description": "This second course in forensic accounting and fraud examination examines the various types of fraud and its impact on the financial information presented. The objective of this course is to identify common fraud schemes and scams. Participants in this course will learn how to review, detect, and investigate possible financial statement fraud by addressing such topics as income smoothing, off balance sheet financing, fictitious sales/revenue, and understatement of liabilities, just to name a few. Various techniques will be used to explore substantive analytical procedures to assess the risks of financial statement fraud.", "credits": "3"}, "ACC692": {"title": "Interview Techniques/Legal Aspects of Fraud", "description": "This third course in forensic accounting and fraud examination will acquaint the participant with interview principles and techniques. Additionally, the participant will be exposed to some of the legal aspects pertaining to the identification and prosecution of fraud.", "credits": "3"}, "ACC693": {"title": "Investigating with Computers", "description": "This fourth course in the Graduate Certificate will provide guidance and knowledge for conducting investigations via machine.  The skills of the participant in this course will be strengthened in such areas as identification of the types of public records available to investigate; how to access the public records through databases; navigation of the Internet to find useful material; the use of fraud-related software packages to detect and investigate possible fraudulent activities; and the use of data analysis programs and spreadsheets to detect fraud.", "credits": "3"}, "ACC695": {"title": "Seminar in Audit and Information Assurance", "description": "This course is designed to deepen your conceptual understanding of the function of auditing and information assurance and provide you with a framework for analyzing contemporary accounting issues.", "credits": "3"}, "ACC696": {"title": "Situational Ethics in Accounting", "description": "This course deals with the application of academic research related to ethical decision making, identifying evolving ethical issues in the accounting and business environment, and evaluating and applying theories of ethics and justice. Students will be exposed to ethical situations affecting the accounting and business environments to gain a solid foundation on which to address possible circumstances they may face as accounting professionals.", "credits": "3"}, "ACC700": {"title": "Accounting Capstone", "description": "This capstone course is the culminating experience for the M.S. in Accounting program. The aim of the capstone is to assess students\u2019 ability to synthesize and integrate the knowledge and skills they have developed throughout their coursework, rather than introducing new concepts. This course is structured to support student success in fulfilling program requirements.", "credits": "3"}, "ACC710": {"title": "Accounting Internship", "description": "This course is to enable the School of Business graduate students to gain valuable work experience within the field of Accounting. The  objective is give the students an opportunity for practical application of Accounting  business concepts/practices learned in classes and complement the course work taken. Secondarily, internships offer the opportunity to develop crucial job searching skills, explore career interests, enhance your resume, make contacts in your chosen field and build references for future employment. Each intern will work in a career-related position during the academic term for which the student is enrolled for the internship - completing a minimum of 150 hours on the job per 3 credits.", "credits": "3"}}, "Advertising": {"ADV263": {"title": "Advertising Copy and Design", "description": "This course focuses on the creative end of advertising, including the actual presentation of advertisements.  Harmony, consistency and effective use of colors, headlines, subheadlines, borders and amplification of the features, as well as advantages and benefits of the product/service, are emphasized. Students will be familiar with the creative competencies and skills needed in the formulation of effective campaigns in various media.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Advertising Communications"}, "ADV340": {"title": "Advertising Media Planning", "description": "This course addresses the connection between media and markets from a quantitative perspective. Students learn to read and understand available statistical tools providing measurement data of media audiences and media usage patterns.  The course covers media selection criteria, such as effective reach and frequency, cost per thousand and cost per rating point, weighting, and continuity patterns.  Students also become cognizant of the impact of a firm's corporate strategies, particularly the marketing and financial strategies, on media planning.  Lastly, the course considers the strategic issues of fragmentation and selectivity as new technology and methods of reaching target markets emerge. Writing intensive course.", "credits": "3"}, "ADV428": {"title": "Promotional Research & Media Management", "description": "This course applies marketing research techniques to the field of promotion. Topics covered include research for promotional campaigns and a survey of the research companies and reports used in evaluating the success of the promotional effort.", "credits": "3"}, "ADV429": {"title": "Advertising Campaigns", "description": "This advanced course in advertising and promotion includes the application of marketing strategies and theories and the development of a complete, multimedia advertising campaign. Aspects covered include gathering primary and secondary marketing research data, establishing an integrated marketing strategy plan, developing creative exhibits in the strategy print and broadcast media and constructing a media traffic plan.", "credits": "3"}, "ADV462": {"title": "Advertising Account Executive Seminar", "description": "This course focuses on the business, management and sales aspects of the advertising field. Students will learn about the selling and marketing of advertising campaigns and obtain the management skills and competencies that are needed to implement effective advertising planning.  Students will be familiar with the roles and responsibilities of executive producers and account executives in sales and management. This is a third-year course in the marketing program.", "credits": "3"}, "ADV480": {"title": "Independent Study", "description": "This course allows students to investigate any advertising subjects not incorporated into the curriculum.", "credits": "3"}}, "Anthropology": {"ATH101": {"title": "The Human Experience: Introduction to Anthropology", "description": "Anthropologists seek to answer the questions of what it means to be human and how cultures shape societies. Anthropology is composed of four main fields-physical anthropology, cultural anthropology, linguistics, and archaeological anthropology-from which culture is examined. This course will introduce students to the anthropological study of cultures, including comparing and contrasting social relationships and belief systems in different cultural settings. Concepts learned in this course will then be used to understand contemporary world views.", "credits": "3"}, "ATH111": {"title": "Introduction to Cultural Anthropology", "description": "This course is the study of preliterate and changing societies that emphasizes social organization and cultural aspects.", "credits": "3"}, "ATH200": {"title": "Native History and Culture", "description": "Students enrolled in this course will be exposed to the culture and history of Native America as told in their own voices, including events, spirituality, art, folk-lore, governance and status as separate nations.", "credits": "3"}, "ATH205": {"title": "Discovering the Past: Foundations in Archaeology", "description": "Archaeological anthropologists seek to discover and learn from what we know about people and cultures that lived long ago. Artifacts and environmental modifications have left behind traces that tell us about their culture and their lives. In this course students will learn about survey techniques, culture change, dating methods, and the reconstruction of economic, social and religious practices of prehistoric societies. Archaeologists often collaborate with scientists from other disciplines to learn about the past. Students will explore what archaeologists hope to learn and how they study the past to inform the present.", "credits": "3"}, "ATH210": {"title": "Human Origins and Evolution: Biological Anthropology", "description": "This course provides an introduction to biological anthropology which explores the evolution of the human species, as well as the biology of contemporary humans and their non-human primate relatives. Students will explore evolutionary theory and mechanisms, the fossil record of human evolution, and modern humans' adaptation to their environments. Basic concepts of genetics, geology, paleontology, comparative anatomy, and primate biology provide the foundation for understanding humanity from a biological anthropological standpoint.", "credits": "3"}, "ATH315": {"title": "Anthropology in the Contemporary World", "description": "Anthropologists utilize an anthropological view to improve human lives. The purpose of this course is to allow students to discover the role of culture in contemporary problems, and to identify anthropological methods for creating positive, sustainable, and minimally biased change. The course will include a review of the history of anthropology and the current state of the field. ", "credits": "3"}, "ATH320": {"title": "Who Owns Culture? Ethics in Anthropology", "description": "This course examines an anthropological understanding and knowledge of different models of ethical decision-making in applied and theory based contexts. Students will learn to identify the concepts of morality and ethical reasoning using the three main traditions of Western philosophy. Ethical decision-making will be explored in the context of current issues, taking into account the four fields of anthropology.", "credits": "3"}, "ATH489": {"title": "Capstone in Anthropology", "description": "This capstone course is the culminating experience for the B.A. in Anthropology program. The aim of the capstone is to assess students' ability to synthesize and integrate the knowledge and skills they have developed throughout their coursework, rather than introducing new concepts. This course is structured to support student success in fulfilling program requirements.", "credits": "3"}}, "Berklee Music Business": {"BMB515": {"title": "Music Business Structure and Strategies", "description": "This course provides an in depth look at the structure of the evolving music business and strategies for creating successful business models. It will guide students through the critical areas of the music industry, including publishing and licensing; marketing, promotion, and retail; proper utilization of free music; fan funding and other forms of creative revenue for musicians; and new business opportunities.  By the end of this course, students will have a deep understanding of the pressing issues that all musicians, music industry entrepreneurs, managers, and other music business professionals face in the main segments of the music industry, and how to leverage opportunities that the new business provides.  This course is offered through Berklee Online.", "credits": "3"}, "BMB630": {"title": "Music Marketing Strategies", "description": "This course takes an in depth look at the tools and emerging technologies used to generate interest in music, acquire new fans, and sell music. The course begins with an introduction to online music marketing - the opportunities available, case studies on how artists are generating interest online, ways to optimize the fan experience, and the major differences between online and physical marketing campaigns. The course examines effective pricing models, third-party distribution options, and product techniques designed to reward fans, while helping to generate a higher net margin. By the end of the course, students produce a fully timed, integrated, and optimized marketing plan that builds up digital touch points, generates interest, and sells music online.  This course is offered through Berklee Online.", "credits": "3"}, "BMB655": {"title": "Music Business Finance", "description": "In this course, students learn to apply critical tools of financial analysis to leverage talent, assess the potential of music enterprises, and drive new music businesses. The course explores nontraditional forms of music funding, such as venture capital and crowdfunding opportunities like Kickstarter. The course includes three components, roughly equally weighted in time spent per week: 1- financial calculations - music and business examples, 2- money, markets, and the music business, and 3- funding music.  This course in offered through Berklee Online.", "credits": "3"}, "BMB670": {"title": "Music Business Leadership and Ethics", "description": "Leadership, decision-making, and ethics represent vital foundations for business professionals in the music industry. The course examines the characteristics of notable leaders, leadership approaches, and music industry leadership scenarios. It explores ethics from a wide variety of industries to gain an understanding about why ethical choices are important, and analyzes current issues affecting the music industry, such as the treatment of artists, intellectual property rights, revenue sharing, and digital media and distribution. Students will apply specific decision-making approaches and ethical frameworks toward projects that mirror the real world. They will create a blueprint for sound decision-making, effective leadership, organizational planning, and ethical awareness that they can immediately apply toward advancing their careers.  This course is offered through Berklee Online.", "credits": "3"}}, "Biology": {"BIO101": {"title": "Principles of Biology", "description": "Introductory level biology course that includes mammalian cell structure and function, cellular reproduction and physiology, and basic Mendelian genetics. Laboratory exercises (BIO-101L) to follow lecture topics.", "credits": "3"}, "BIO101L": {"title": "Principles of Biology Lab", "description": "BIO 101L is a laboratory course, following topics in BIO 101, General Biology.  Students will gain hands-on experience and visual reinforcement of concepts, including acid-base dynamics, enzyme action, osmosis and diffusion, cellular reproduction, and use of microscopes.", "credits": "1"}, "BIO120": {"title": "General Biology I", "description": "General biology course that includes mammalian cell structure and function, cellular reproduction and physiology, and Mendelian genetics. Laboratory exercises (BIO 120L) to follow lecture topics.", "credits": "3"}, "BIO120L": {"title": "General Biology I Lab", "description": "Laboratory course to follow topics presented in BIO 120. ", "credits": "1"}, "BIO205": {"title": "Human Anatomy and Physiology I", "description": "Human Anatomy and Physiology I is the first of two courses examining the structure, function, and interdependence of the human body systems. The course begins at the cellular and molecular levels with a concentration on the organization of the human body as a symbiotic system. The integumentary, nervous, skeletal, and muscular systems provide focal points for case studies and discussions throughout the term. The online laboratory course component allows the student to integrate and apply theory based knowledge from the course room to online experiments and critical appraisal exercises.", "credits": "3"}, "BIO210": {"title": "Introduction to Anatomy and Physiology", "description": "Discussion/comparison of the principles of mammalian form and function. Includes molecular and cellular mechanisms of major processes (such as muscle contraction, neural transmission, and signal transduction) and examines the structure and function of the 11 organ systems of the human body. Laboratory exercises (BIO-210L) to follow lecture topics.", "credits": "3"}, "BIO211": {"title": "Anatomy and Physiology II", "description": "Human Anatomy and Physiology II is the second of two courses examining the structure, function and interdependence of the human body systems. The muscular/skeletal, cardiac, respiratory, gastrointestinal, and genitourinary systems provide focal points for case studies and online discussions throughout the term. This course allows the student to integrate and apply theory based knowledge from the course room to simulations and critical appraisal exercises.", "credits": "3"}, "BIO212": {"title": "Microbiology", "description": "Microbiology focuses on the impact of pathogenic organisms and their role in immunology and disease. Course content will focus on the etiology of microbial infections, the interaction between microbe and host, and preventive measures. Students will participate in simulations that will provide clarity into the symptomatology, etiology, pathogenesis, epidemiology, prevention and best practices in the treatments of infectious diseases.", "credits": "3"}, "BIO315": {"title": "Ecological Principles and Field Methods", "description": "This course introduces students to the principles of ecology and practical methods used in the field. Students will explore theoretical topics in the ecological systems including the level of the population, community and ecosystem; energy flow and biogeochemical cycles; and the concept of sustainability.  Students will read literature and conduct research projects in the field and will use critical thinking to evaluate research, design studies, present findings and debate on the issues.", "credits": "3"}, "BIO330": {"title": "Conservation Biology", "description": "This course will focus on the importance of biodiversity. Currently, we are experiencing an unprecedented loss in species; losing, on average, two species a day. Unlike past mass extinctions humans are largely responsible. Following the Society of Conservation Biology's guidelines for conservation literacy, this course will investigate how we can apply biological principals to reverse trends in species loss. We will focus on case studies to develop our understanding of what maintains, reduces, and restores biodiversity. The course will be organized into three sections 1) history and value of conservation biology, 2) threats to biodiversity, and 3) approaches to solving conservation problems.", "credits": "3"}}, "Business": {"BUS206": {"title": "Business Law I", "description": "The background, foundation and ethical aspects of the United States' legal system are examined. Torts, product liability, criminal law, contracts, sales, business organizations, and agency and cyber law also are explored.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Business Law"}, "BUS250": {"title": "Legal Implications of Vendor Partnership", "description": "Explore copyright and intellectual property, licensing rights and user capabilities, vendor relations, and critical thinking techniques. Examine the importance of vendor partnerships to create, deliver, install, maintain, or support critical components.  Learn about the the vendor expectations created and addressed within contractual agreements.", "credits": "3"}, "BUS307": {"title": "Business Law II", "description": "The study begun in Business Law I continues as the topics of commercial paper, real and personal property, creditors' rights and bankruptcy, agency, business organizations, estate planning and government regulation of business are explored. ", "credits": "3"}, "BUS490": {"title": "Business Internship", "description": "The primary goal of the internship experience is to expose students to actual practices in the world of work outside of the classroom, to relate this experience to academic course work and to synthesize the two in a practical application of knowledge in an experiential setting.  Secondarily, internships offer the opportunity to develop crucial job searching skills, explore career interests, enhance your resume, make contacts in your chosen field and build references for future employment. Each intern will work in a career-related position during the academic term for which the student is enrolled for the internship completing a minimum of 150 hours on the job per 3 credits. This is an elective internship course intended for College of Online and Continuing Education students who do not have a required internship as part of their program. ", "credits": "3"}}, "Chemistry": {"CHM101": {"title": "Fundamentals of Chemistry", "description": "An introductory, general education course for the non-science major emphasizing the contribution of chemistry in our everyday lives. This course will enable students to look at various aspects of the world around them through the lens of chemistry. It will introduce basic concepts and applications of chemistry as well as chemical topics and their relationship to matters of societal concern.", "credits": "3"}, "CHM101L": {"title": "Fundamentals of Chemistry Lab", "description": "This course will use laboratory techniques to study the fundamental principles of chemistry. Topics such as the mole, chemical equilibria, chemical and physical properties, solutions, kinetics, etc., will all be covered along with other topics important to chemistry.", "credits": "1"}}, "Communication": {"COM126": {"title": "Introduction to Mass Communication", "description": "This communications survey course covers mass media, culture, and society.  The course focuses on how and why the US media operate as they do, as well as on how media performance might be improved.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is The Communication Profession"}, "COM128": {"title": "Language and Practice of Media Arts", "description": "This is an introduction to the practice of media production and the study of visual media literacy. The course examines the fundamental components and structure of moving image texts, explores how dynamic relationships between those elements convey meaning, and then exercise that knowledge through media production. Production design, language, technology, and methods will be discussed enabling all students in the class to have a common language of image analysis and creation. Readings and discussions on topics such as cinematography, narrative meaning, image and sound design, editing, genres, and culture will be included. Creative interpretative and expression of ideas will be exercised in the production of media.", "credits": "3"}, "COM130": {"title": "Media Communication and Visual Literacy", "description": "Examine the concept of media literacy. Practice deconstructing media messages to recognize their potential effect. Understand how media literacy is associated with an individual's role as a consumer of and participant in media.", "credits": "3"}, "COM212": {"title": "Public Speaking", "description": "This course is designed to help students develop abilities, including organization and delivery skills, for all speaking situations.  The evaluation and improvement of voice, diction, articulation and posture also are studied. May not be used as literature elective. ", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Public Speaking"}, "COM227": {"title": "Public Relations", "description": "This course introduces students to the theory and practice of public relations in the United States. Students study the major figures in this field as well as organizations, their behavior, and the relationships between organizations and their publics.", "credits": "3"}, "COM230": {"title": "Graphics and Layout in Print Media", "description": "This course is an introduction to the principles and practices of graphic design.  Students are introduced through lecture, demonstration and hands-on computer work to the basic elements of graphic visual communication.  Adobe Illustrator is used as a primary tool in exploring visual perception through a variety of creative exercises that familiarize the student with basic visual principles such as figure/ground manipulation, shape grouping, letterform shape creation, and grid and system creation.  Formal elements of graphic design such as line, shape, color, texture, pattern, balance, symmetry, rhythm, space and unity are thoroughly explored by example and hands-on computer exercises; special topics included are:  designing with type, layout strategies, logo design, symbol and pictogram development and stationery systems.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Visual Communication and Design"}, "COM232": {"title": "Desktop Publishing", "description": "This course is an introduction to the software application Adobe InDesign designed for the novice user.  The Macintosh platform is used in the classroom studio lab, and the student is introduced to the creative and practical aspects of the desktop publishing program that is considered indispensable in the contemporary communications and design industries.  This course is based on a series of introductory exercises and a regimen of hands-on practice that teaches software and design skills; students learn how to combine the use of InDesign with other professional graphics and work-processing software such as Adobe Illustrator, Adobe Photoshop and Microsoft Word.", "credits": "3"}, "COM235": {"title": "Multimedia Journalism", "description": "This writing practicum introduces students to writing for print and electronic media under deadline.  Gathering information by using records, documents, observation, interviewing, and the Internet.  Emphasis on library resources, electronic databases, and current events.  Basic style and editing based on AP Stylebook and Libel Manual and AP Broadcast News Handbook.", "credits": "3"}, "COM310": {"title": "Social Media", "description": "Twitter, Facebook, blogs, podcasts - the possibilities of social media today are countless and ever-changing.  This course is a broad approach to the history, theory, technology, impact and strategic uses of social media.  These tools are relatively inexpensive and accessible technologies that enable anyone to create, publish, edit and access messages intended for the smallest to the largest of audiences.  Students will examine the strategic uses of social media for community building, civic and political participation, advertising, marketing, public relations, and journalism.  This course provides hands-on experience with the most current technology.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Social Media"}, "COM315": {"title": "Communication in the Digital Age", "description": "Contemporary relationships exist across space and time in ways that are continually transforming through computer-mediated and digital communication. Social networking, chat, email, online gaming, and online dating present new challenges for how and why we engage and enter relationships with others. This course examines the foundations of interpersonal communication in light of digital (new) media, evaluating the effect that mediated communication has on relational strategies. Students will evaluate communication behaviors across multiple digital mediums and examine concepts related to relational development, maintenance, and deterioration, interpersonal conflict, nonverbal communication, and identity and culture.", "credits": "3"}, "COM320": {"title": "Exploring World Cultures/Mass Media", "description": "This course seeks to expand global cultural understanding and communication by examining pop culture and media systems in various countries. Students will have the opportunity to expand their cultural perspective by exploring music, film, television, radio, print media, technology, and urban and youth culture.  Topics will include media imports and exports, media audiences, media financing and regulation, media research and reporting, media effects, media ethics, meaning and communication through media, and intercultural communication.  In lieu of a text students will use extensive Internet research, personal interviews, podcasts, discussion boards, various supplemental material, and independent cultural exploration.  Classes will consist of brief lectures, discussion, viewing of media, and in-class research and projects.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Global and Intercultural Communication"}, "COM322": {"title": "Advanced Public Speaking", "description": "This course provides students with the skills to produce effective oral presentations in professional contexts.  The course includes formal individual speeches as well as interactive and group presentations.  It is run as a seminar to provide students with experience as moderators.", "credits": "3"}, "COM325": {"title": "Editing for Media and Publication", "description": "The role of the editor in today's media and publication industries has been transformed by the convergence of technological advances and delivery manner. Whether it is in news operations, public relations, advertising, or book publication, the traditional copy editor has merged with the content editor. This course provides both the foundational skills in basic language editing and the practical competencies associated with editing content for new media (including visual literacy, headlines, typography, and search optimization). ", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Critical Media Consumption"}, "COM327": {"title": "Screenwriting for Media Arts", "description": "This course is designed to teach students the fundamentals of screenwriting for short narrative and commercial projects. Students will analyze screenplays and scripts, and then learn basic screenwriting concepts and tools. Students will be attending lectures and film screenings, completing in-class writing exercises and proposals, providing valuable critique to their colleagues, and completing at least one treatment, pitch and screenplay.", "credits": "3"}, "COM329": {"title": "New Media Technologies", "description": "This course examines the role of new media in contemporary society and the evolution of media technologies in economics, politics, marketing, business, relationships, and journalism. Students will utilize and practice with various new media tools and platforms for both personal and professional contexts. The course focuses on both the practical skills and the theoretical foundations of new media, asking students to demonstrate proficiency in these platforms while understanding the implications for communication practice.", "credits": "3"}, "COM336": {"title": "Electronic Public Relations", "description": "This course provides a focused overview of electronic public relations applications and presents guidelines for using electronic technologies for public relations purposes. Students will learn to reach various publics through public service announcements, video news releases and satellite media tours. Students will also learn how to reach media, government, consumers, employees and management effectively by applying electronic media technologies.", "credits": "Offered as needed."}, "COM340": {"title": "Writing for Public Relations", "description": "Survey course requiring copywriting in public communication formats, including news releases, features, editorials, brochures, executive summaries, company profiles, newsletters and annual report copy.", "credits": "3"}, "COM341": {"title": "Technical Writing", "description": "This course trains students to produce documents of a technical nature commonly found in a business context.  Students are required to prepare a variety of technical reports, including audits, technical manuals and feasibility studies.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Technical Writing"}, "COM342": {"title": "Writing for the Computer Industry", "description": "This course is designed to increase the students' ability to communicate high-tech information and to apply the technical writing process to the computer industry.  The course focuses on techniques for creating documentation with attention to formatting, graphic design and text organization.", "credits": "3"}, "COM430": {"title": "Organizational Communications", "description": "This course gives students the opportunity to develop skills, knowledge, and philosophies in organizational communication through lectures, research, readings, discussions, application, and written assignments. Emphasis is placed on verbal and nonverbal communication, cultural communication, interpersonal relationships within organizations, and dealing with the future and change.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Defining and Communicating a Brand"}, "COM435": {"title": "Feature Writing", "description": "This course is for students who want to explore feature writing as a means of improving their research and writing skills or to pursue a print journalism focus in the communication major. Students will learn how to develop and organize ideas, adapt their writing for specific audiences and revise and polish their prose style.", "credits": "3"}, "COM445": {"title": "Writing for New Media", "description": "This course is an advanced writing experience that focuses on the content-development skills critical for new and emerging digital media technologies. Students engage with the essential concepts and issues surrounding media convergence and the various strategies for delivering and adapting essential information through diverse multimedia platforms.", "credits": "3"}, "COM448": {"title": "Media Ethics and Law", "description": "This course provides students with the skills and knowledge they need to work in the communications profession. They also will develop a clear understanding of the statutory and constitutional guidelines governing the profession. Students learn the theoretical underpinnings of the First Amendment, followed by its application in cases involving libel, privacy, intellectual property, corporate speech, advertising, obscenity, access to information, protection of news sources, broadcasting policy and electronic media regulations.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Government Regulation and Social Responsibility"}, "COM452": {"title": "Public Relations Campaign Planning Seminar (Capstone)", "description": "This capstone course offers practice in managing communication campaigns from the public relations perspective and emphasizes the production and presentation of campaign plans.  Students will develop and pitch a campaign for a real client.", "credits": "3"}, "COM469": {"title": "Senior Seminar in Communication (Capstone)", "description": "This course serves as the capstone experience for communication majors.  Students synthesize past course work, knowledge, skills, and experiences in order to research and plan a scholarly applied communication study and/or campaign to solve a problem for a 'real world' client.  Specific project requirements are tailored to meet students' planned career paths or areas of focus in the communication discipline.  In-class sessions focus on enabling students to become effective independent researchers, while regular individual conferences with the instructor focus on project planning, charting progress, and addressing contingencies.  The course results in each student producing a final written product - a research thesis or professional project report - along with a public oral presentation of the thesis/project.", "credits": "3"}, "COM476": {"title": "Corporate Communications Seminar (Capstone)", "description": "This course will explore the growing field of corporate communication with special emphasis on, industry analysis, media relations, message strategies and crisis communication planning. Upon completion of the course, students will understand the theory, practice and functions of corporate communicators. This course will serve as a capstone experience for all communication majors.", "credits": "3"}, "COM480": {"title": "Independent Study", "description": "This course allows a student to investigate any communication subject not in the curriculum. ", "credits": "0 - 3"}, "COM500": {"title": "Communication, Media & Society", "description": "Communication, Media, and Society serves as an introduction to key concepts and theories in the study of communication and media. In this course, students will examine the foundations of the discipline of communication focusing particularly on the ways in which media and technology have impacted the study of culture, relationships, and messages. The course will explore the impact of communication on various arenas, including families, relationships, culture and the changes in communication and media over time. Students will analyze their own skills, communication patterns, networks, and resources and articulate a plan for future studies and career plans in communication.", "credits": "3"}, "COM510": {"title": "The Vantage Point: Knowledge & New Media", "description": "This course contends with the evolving concept of \"knowledge production\" in the new media environment. It focuses on strategies for independent online research, including processes for identifying, vetting, and citing appropriate sources of information, as well as best practices for writing in the online environment. Issues of copyright, plagiarism, and ethics related to the creation of online content will be evaluated. Finally, students will explore their role as producers of mediated communication, including primary authorship and the curating of content.", "credits": "3"}, "COM530": {"title": "Law & Ethics: A Line in the Sand", "description": "Legal issues related to communication and media in the U.S. are rapidly changing in an age where technology and the distribution of mediated messages are ubiquitous. Thus, this course contends with the major legal, ethical, and policy issues related to mass media communication particularly focusing on those issues that impact digital and public communication. Concepts related to the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, libel, obscenity, censorship, right to privacy, intellectual property, and the governance of media and digital technology will be explored. Additionally, this course asks students to contend with many ethical issues and philosophies pertinent to media and communication in the interest of articulating a personal ethical framework as a graduate communication student and practitioner.", "credits": "3"}, "COM540": {"title": "Second Self: Identity & Personal Brands", "description": "Interactive and social media have opened up myriad opportunities for individuals to create, manage, re-create, and even fabricate their identity online. This course contends with the idea of a virtual or \"second\" self and the ways in which one navigates identities in a highly networked environment. Students will explore the relationship between professional and personal identities, privacy and security in online environments, and the creation of personal brands in various media. Students will have the opportunity to explore and experiment with various types of social media tools to develop an effective and active online brand.", "credits": "3"}, "COM565": {"title": "Communication with Media Technology", "description": "Media technologies are changing so rapidly that those currently designated as 'new' could become obsolete before the impact to the communication field is even fully understood. Communication professionals must seek to understand the catalysts of technological changes by conceiving of them as products of the values and assumptions held by the societies that create them. This course is focused on how new media technologies have developed, how they might modify previous understandings of the relationship between technology and culture, and how they have shaped industries (particularly media industries) today. Students will investigate the practical aspect of various technologies of interest in order to become more savvy consumers and critics of emerging media tools and resources.", "credits": "3"}, "COM566": {"title": "Pen to Platform", "description": "A corollary to and resulting challenge of new media technology is the need for messages that are applicable and effective in a myriad of different contexts. In this course, students will craft and structure written work so that it may be more easily translated to different platforms. Different writing processes, such as information mapping, will be employed to demonstrate new ways of thinking about information. Students will apply best practices for effectively communicating across different media and actualizing varied communication in their writing.", "credits": "3"}, "COM567": {"title": "Digital Tools and Teams", "description": "Although modern technology empowers the individual to do far more with limited resources than ever before, it is certainly impossible to live and work in a vacuum in today's globalized society. Striking the balance between DIY, collaboration, and contracting help requires adept decision making and project management that must be rooted in the overall strategy and mission of the communication plan. In this course, students will explore and employ the practical resources, tools, economics, and logistics of new media and marketing. Additionally, students will determine and practice effective means for utilizing diverse networks of colleagues, mentors, clients, and critics to shape their media strategies.", "credits": "3"}, "COM568": {"title": "New Media Campaign Design & Marketing", "description": "Developing and executing a new media campaign requires the integration of skills, strategies, and tactics to create a cohesive, dynamic whole. Similarly, this course integrates components from previous coursework by addressing topics such as the life cycle of the campaign, campaign management strategies, effective tracking and measurement, and making modifications based on data analysis. Students will evaluate past successful and unsuccessful campaigns in order to glean and substantiate best practices in campaign design and execution. Finally, students will create structured components of new media campaigns in order to prepare for the critical assessment in the capstone course.", "credits": "3"}, "COM575": {"title": "eHealth and Technology", "description": "eHealth, telemedicine, and cybermedicine are quickly becoming the new 'face' of medicine in today's world. Patients and consumers are looking for ease of access to healthcare information and are met with an abundance of electronic resources. This course provides an introduction to the role of electronically-mediated communication in health communication and campaigns and asks students to engage with how technology can improve, hinder, and/or evolve health literacy and health communication practices.", "credits": "3"}, "COM576": {"title": "Health Communication & Culture", "description": "Health literacy is an increasingly important component of any health care system as patients and communities struggle to integrate appropriate interventions, and these interventions are always shaped by the cultural and social contexts of the communities affected. This course provides an advanced investigation into relevant cultural concepts that shape health care and health communication, focusing on strategies to improve health literacy ethically and empathically.", "credits": "3"}, "COM577": {"title": "Healthcare Ethics", "description": "Certainly ethics is important in every branch of communication. But when conveying messages about subject matter as sensitive, high-stakes, and emotionally-charged as health care, ethics takes on a new level of significance. In this course, students will re-examine general principles of responsible communication in the new context of health communication. Through investigation of relevant case studies, students will logically extend and add definition to their existing moral frameworks. The course will emphasize the nuance and complexity of health-related ethical issues, including the impacts of technology on health privacy, stigma surrounding controversial health issues, illnesses, and treatment options, and one's moral responsibility to ensure accuracy in disseminating public health information.", "credits": "3"}, "COM578": {"title": "Contemporary Public Policy and Strategy", "description": "Particular to the field of health communication is the significant role governmental policies, initiatives, and practices will play - from the content of one's messages to the way in which they are conveyed. Additionally, as a health communication professional, it is likely that one may be called upon to draft, disseminate, and promote health legislation and associated initiatives. In this course, students will examine contemporary legislation and health care policy trends, so as to adeptly devise strategies and craft messages for effectively communicating this essential information. Attention will be paid to best practices for responsibly addressing controversial political issues in one's health communications.", "credits": "3"}, "COM600": {"title": "Communication for Leadership", "description": "This course aims to prepare students for a variety of leadership roles in dynamic organizations and environments. Students will analyze key aspects of leadership, relationships, and organizations such as: organizational culture, conflict in interpersonal and organizational settings, organizational roles and socialization, power in personal and professional relationships, and group communication theories. Students will contend with these concepts from a personal standpoint by using examples from their own relationships and workplaces to apply best practices and improve their own communication and leadership skills. Additionally, this course takes a systems theory approach to organizations and teams, looking at the interrelationship of events, people, and ideas and the systemic impact of small and large changes.", "credits": "3"}, "COM610": {"title": "More than Words: Communication by Design", "description": "Illustrations, photos, infographics, videos, animations, and dynamic interfaces often tell a consumer more about a brand or product than the product itself. It is increasingly important that media consumers and creators be fluent visual communicators. This course presents fundamentals of good visual design and presentation in media focusing on the best practices for a variety of design tools. Students will engage with key concepts related to visual production and consumption, media and web design, storytelling and narrative in visual formats, and accessibility of content for diverse audiences.", "credits": "3"}, "COM620": {"title": "Strategic Communication in a New Age", "description": "In today's public climate, political rhetoric is no longer just a tool of the immensely powerful or those who have access to a podium and speakers. The dissemination of mass messages can occur in any number of avenues and can reach audiences that were previously inaccessible or disinterested. Communication professionals today are in a powerful position to shape messaging and distribution strategies for many contexts: politics, popular culture, business, nonprofit advocacy, social movements, advertising, and marketing. In this course, students should develop the perspective and skill sets necessary to respond effectively and creatively to complex social problems and opportunities in written, verbal, and visual communication mediums.", "credits": "3"}, "COM655": {"title": "Reputation Management: Building a Brand", "description": "The public relations field distinguishes itself through its emphasis on capturing hearts and minds. Above and beyond the marketing goal of persuading target consumers to the desired economic end, it is the task of the public relations professional to persuade individuals and groups to accept a certain belief or opinion. In this way, the topics of messaging and branding take on new meaning within the context of public relations. In this course, students will make that transition in to the world of public relations by re-examining and building upon core principles to build a foundation for the public relations concentration.", "credits": "3"}, "COM656": {"title": "Spread the Word: Social Media Practices", "description": "The ease of self-publishing using blogs, the dedication of entire mainstream news segments to the \"conversation\" on Twitter, the use of RSS feeds to immediately deliver customized messages and other personalization of communication all hail the dawn of a new era that is at once global and highly individualistic. For a public relations professional, social media technologies present unique challenges and opportunities to develop and protect one's brand. In this course, students will engage in thorough investigations and practical applications of the specific technologies, outlets, platforms, networks, and mediums that will populate their professional tool kit. Students will gain proficiency in particular, relevant tools, as well as add to their general fluency in the language of technology.", "credits": "3"}, "COM657": {"title": "Crisis Communication in a 24/7 World", "description": "The pervasiveness of social media, 24-hour news coverage, and mobile communications has transformed the role of public relations specialists. What constituted 'private' has become increasingly public given individuals' immediate access to multiple platforms and technologies to publish sensitive information. Protecting a brand and maintaining a consistent message in the maelstrom of broadcasted opinions is certainly more difficult than ever before. This course addresses the topics of public relations ethics and crisis management through the investigation of landmark cases and hypothetical crisis scenarios, preparing students to develop crisis management, prevention, and response skills crucial for today's media environment.", "credits": "3"}, "COM658": {"title": "Integrated Public Relations Campaigns & Measurement", "description": "Developing and executing a public relations campaign requires the integration of skills, strategies, and tactics to create a cohesive, dynamic whole. Similarly, this course integrates components from previous coursework by addressing topics such as the life cycle of the campaign, campaign management strategies, effective tracking and measurement, and making modifications based on data analysis. Students will evaluate past successful and unsuccessful campaigns in order to glean and substantiate best practices in campaign design and execution. Finally, students will create structured components of public relations campaigns in order to prepare for the critical task in the capstone course.", "credits": "3"}, "COM690": {"title": "Communication Capstone", "description": "This capstone course integrates previous coursework and practical experience with a focus on authentic demonstration of competency in the student's chosen specialization in communication. Instead of introducing new concepts, students will synthesize prior learning to design, develop, and execute a communication campaign on their chosen subject as a culmination of their studies. The course will be structured around this critical task, so that students have the appropriate support and resources required to be successful.", "credits": "3"}}, "Community Economic Development": {"CED301": {"title": "Introduction to Community Economic Development", "description": "This introduction course will examine the values, issues, models and policy underlying the theory and practice of community economic development (CED). Students will be exposed to the range of social and economic challenges confronted by residents of underserved and marginalized communities as well as review issues and challenges facing the field.", "credits": "3"}, "CED335": {"title": "Social Issues and Economic Policies CED", "description": "This course is an introduction to the principles of social economics and policy. The course will expose students to concepts such as supply and demand, markets, national income, international trade, economic development, the economics of social issues, and the relationship between power and markets.", "credits": "3"}, "CED405": {"title": "Financial Literacy for Social Services", "description": "This course is designed to introduce students to concepts integral to understanding the financial operations of not-for-profit, non-governmental organizations - NGOs.  Students examine corporate governance structures and explore, from a financial perspective, how these organizations achieve socially responsible agenda.  Students will gain an understanding of the broader financial realm of socially responsible organizations and utilizing and managing money for social causes.", "credits": "3"}, "CED601": {"title": "Introduction to CED in the U.S.", "description": "This is a foundation course in which we will examine the values, issues, models and policy underlying the theory and practice of community economic development (CED). The course starts with an examination of the theoretical and conceptual framework for community economic development. Participants will examine the range of economic challenges confronted daily by residents of underserved communities. The class will examine the practices, policies and strategies of CED. We will look at how CED approaches the challenges of job creation and retention, and community revitalization. An overview of strategies such as asset building with individual development accounts and self-employment: and community building with community loan funds, cooperatives, employment and training initiatives will be provided. Project examples and participants' own experiences will serve as course materials along with the required readings. Finally, we will review issues and challenges facing the field.", "credits": "3"}, "CED602": {"title": "Introduction to International CED", "description": "This course will examine the evolution of thinking that has shaped the practice of community-based international development.  Students explore development, projects, programs, and policies that blend social practice and economic principles. The course exposes members of the class to some of the major scholars in the field through their writings.  The first class in the series focuses on three substantive themes:  definitions of development; ethics of development; and lastly, hunger, famine and food policy.  Students will learn methods of policy analysis to analyze these themes from an ICED perspective.", "credits": "3"}, "CED611": {"title": "Research Methods in CED", "description": "The objectives of this Term One course include literature reviews; research designs; stakeholder analyses and FSs; survey, sampling and questionnaire designs; and descriptive statistics procedures.", "credits": "3"}, "CED613": {"title": "Organizational Management in CED", "description": "This course provides the underpinnings of public/nonprofit management.  This course covers the basic principle of Organizational Management, leadership, human aspects of organizations and organizational life, and the functions that managers must perform to be successful.  The primary goal of the course is to provide students with the tools needed to perform more effectively as managers.  The course begins with an individual focus (Organizational Behavior) that rapidly progresses to the higher social dimensions (group, organizational).  The course also attends to Organizational Management with an emphasis on public/nonprofit practice.  This course is intended to add to students' knowledge base of management theories and practices, and to develop skills through the application of knowledge to real life.  By the end of the course, students will have a better understanding of themselves as managers, other players, and of the socio-technical systems of organizations and management.", "credits": "3"}, "CED621": {"title": "Project Design in CED", "description": "This course is the first in a four-course sequence during which students identify a community issue, design a CED project to address that issue, implement the project, evaluate and document it, and present the finished product.  In this course, students identify a community problem or issue, conduct relevant research, analyze the issue in conjunction with colleagues and community stakeholders, and develop a preliminary project design. Computer software competencies include word processing and spreadsheet programs, presentation and graphics programs and online research tools and search engines.", "credits": "3"}, "CED622": {"title": "Project Planning in CED", "description": "This is the second in a four-course sequence during which students identify a community issue, design a CED project to address that issue, implement the project, evaluate and document it, and present the finished product.  Students in this course refine their project design skills through preparation and presentation of a formal proposal for their project.  Students continue to review the literature, particularly to review best practices relevant to the issue being addressed. Each student creates a logic model that details the underlying theory of change and the project's inputs, outputs, and outcomes.  Students learn to plan for implementation of the project, including information management, monitoring and evaluation, employing tools such as Gantt charts.", "credits": "3"}, "CED623": {"title": "Project Management in CED", "description": "Following CED-622, students implement the projects they have designed, applying the tools learned in prior classes.  Regular progress reports and class presentations are required to monitor and track project implementation and management.  Emphasis is on the many pitfalls of project implementation and how to analyze and deal with them.  Projects implemented by the class are used as case studies and supplemented by relevant readings.", "credits": "3"}, "CED624": {"title": "Project Evaluation in CED", "description": "This course, the final one in the Project sequence, focuses on assessment of what did and did not happen throughout the project, and comparison of actual to expected outcomes. Students conduct a project evaluation, and prepare and present a final report that describes the project, its outcomes, methodology and actual activities.  The report includes analysis of the project, conclusions, and recommendations for future work and serves as the student's master's thesis.", "credits": "3"}, "CED631": {"title": "Housing Policy and Development", "description": "This course covers market analysis and housing needs assessments, site selection and control, financial feasibility reports, the selection of a development team, methods of obtaining approval from various government entities, identification of private and public funding and subsidies, and various forms of ownership, including cooperatives and land trusts. Students also learn about the policy framework for affordable housing development, and the legal, institutional, economic, political and environmental factors that shape that framework.", "credits": "3"}, "CED632": {"title": "Urban Neighborhood Revitalization", "description": "This course looks at CED in urban (mostly United States) settings. Following a review of urban geography and changes in cities over time, the course examines strategies of business development, job creation, and neighborhood revitalization that are particularly relevant to cities. Students will gain an understanding of the roles of development partners, methods for fostering stakeholder involvement, and understanding the relationship between critical demographic, socio-economic cultural and capital investment/infrastructure related trends and priorities. Students explore case studies and identify best practices.", "credits": "3"}, "CED634": {"title": "Financing Community Economic Development", "description": "This course looks at how CED projects and organizations are financed, including the traditional and non-traditional and financial institutions involved; the various forms of financing that are possible; the factors involved in choosing the financing for a particular project; and the ways in which the choice of financing may influence a project's outcome.", "credits": "3"}, "CED636": {"title": "Foundations of Community Action", "description": "This course provides a historical and conceptual understanding of Community Action as an approach and framework employed by agencies that serve low-income clients and communities by promoting self-sufficiency.  The course equips students with knowledge to relate personalities and agendas of key individuals to the decisions and policies implemented; chart the ebb and flow of government involvement (support) in assisting the poor from pre-Great Depression forward; compare and contrast past methods of assisting the poor historically with methods today and projected methods (to answer the question: What role does political will play in addressing poverty?); explain the role of leadership at the community, Federal and political level and analyze the role of political leadership and its effect on fighting poverty; and track the measurements of poverty (to answer the following questions:  How do we measure poverty historically?  Who is defined as \"poor\"?  How should we measure it today and who is for or against the government taking on this role?).", "credits": "3"}, "CED641": {"title": "Economics", "description": "This economics course covers both microeconomics and macroeconomics principles and issues. This introductory course will give students a working understanding of the principles of economics as it applies to individuals, community, and the economy as a whole. The microeconomics topics will touch upon factors of production, consumer behavior, behavior of firms, and the market structure. The macroeconomic topics will familiarize the students with economic performance measures, fiscal and monetary policy, market and government failure, and economic growth.", "credits": "3"}, "CED642": {"title": "Economics and Development", "description": "This course allows students to examine the domestic and international economic problems countries face and to explore community approaches to solving them.  A variety of economic development paradigms, ranging from traditional to community-based, are examined. The course will introduce students to the importance of economics as it relates to community economic development (CED) and cover basic concepts in micro and macroeconomics. The economic concepts learned will then be applied to gain an understanding of the development process, as seen through an economic lens. Specifically, students will use their knowledge in economics to better understand domestic and international development issues such as poverty and inequality, population growth, migration, human capital development, rural development and agricultural transformation, environment, and trade.", "credits": "3"}, "CED644": {"title": "Microenterprise Development", "description": "This course looks at the characteristics of the informal sector businesses that crowd the lowest rung of the economic ladder and examines ways of assisting these income-generating activities to the poor.  Students study ways to design and manage a financial and technical assistance intermediary to provide credit, management and organization assistance to micro scale economic enterprises.", "credits": "3"}, "CED652": {"title": "Community Building and Organizing", "description": "Community economic development often requires an understanding of community organizing to successfully involve the community in the development process.  This course acquaints participants with different models of community organizing.  It also trains participants in specific organizing skills that can be used in their work as CED practitioners, including negotiation techniques.", "credits": "3"}}, "Community Health Education": {"CHE110": {"title": "Introduction to Community Health Education", "description": "Explore the field of community health education through community health organizations, epidemiology, planning and assessment strategies such as Mobilizing for Action through Planning and Partnerships (MAPP), and the status of the nation\u2019s health. Examine the responsibilities, competencies, and skills of the community health education entry\u2010level professional. Healthy People 2020 and Centers for Disease Control are used as important resources. Students begin to develop and implement program ePortfolios.", "credits": "3"}, "CHE220": {"title": "Communicable Diseases", "description": "Explore the nature and cause of human communicable diseases based on an understanding of pathogenic, behavioral, and environmental factors through the concepts of pathological process in public health. Review historical and contemporary disease patterns as they relate to common communicable diseases. Students learn disease prevention, treatment, and control approaches along with strategies promoting healthy behavior.", "credits": "3"}, "CHE300": {"title": "Methods and Materials in Health Education", "description": "The goal of this course is to explore innovative, meaningful, and effective teaching and learning approaches and materials in community health education. Students learn about curriculum planning and development, teaching strategies, creative learning resources and materials for workplace and community health education settings. Topics include developing health education materials and methods that are culturally and age appropriate.", "credits": "3"}, "CHE320": {"title": "Perspectives in Aging", "description": "Examine the growing field of gerontology, the scientific study of aging, with a multidisciplinary and developmental perspective that sees aging in a positive light with an emphasis on wellness, rather than disability and disease. Explore concepts of ageism, its history, and its impact on individuals, families, and communities.", "credits": "3"}, "CHE325": {"title": "Aging and Wellness", "description": "Investigate the health characteristics of aging populations and issues impacting quality of life. Examine the changes in various body systems and lifestyle factors, such as nutrition, sexuality, stress, and exercise, along with current trends in wellness.", "credits": "3"}, "CHE327": {"title": "The Epidemiology of Aging", "description": "This interdisciplinary course provides an overview of demography and methodology related to aging, and explores the specific health conditions common to older persons. The course covers methodological issues relevant to the study of aging, the biology of aging and the etiology and epidemiology of common geriatric syndromes and diseases.", "credits": "3"}, "CHE329": {"title": "Aging, Politics, and Policy", "description": "This course examines the critical issues and current policies impacting the aging U.S. population including Medicare and family caregiving, and introduces current trends in public health. The course covers public policies on retirement, employer pensions, workplace conditions, and entitlement programs, Social Security and health care reform, and the rise of the elderly as a powerful political force.", "credits": "3"}, "CHE350": {"title": "Program Administration", "description": "This course provides a strong foundation of the theories, principles, and practices in program administration of public health education and health promotion programs in a variety of settings on local, state, national, and international levels. Topics include: healthcare services and public health, the uninsured, public health law, emergency health preparedness.", "credits": "3"}, "CHE460": {"title": "Health Communication, Social Marketing, and Advocacy", "description": "This course explores the roles of communication and social marketing as indispensable tools in health promotion and disease prevention. Students learn about the power of effective health campaigns in changing health behaviors. Public debate, advocacy skills and policy development are examined in terms of their interrelationship.", "credits": "3"}, "CHE490": {"title": "Community Health Capstone", "description": "This capstone course is the culminating experience for the Bachelor of Science in Community Health Education. This course builds on the theories and concepts of all courses students have taken within the program of study. The capstone course provides students with the opportunity to integrate and synthesize the knowledge and skills acquired throughout their course work in an original comprehensive paper, and to assess their level of mastery of the stated outcomes of their degree program in community health education.  This course is taken in the student\u2019s final term.", "credits": "3"}}, "Computer Science": {"CS200": {"title": "Computer Science's Role in Industry", "description": "This course introduces the role of computer software in a variety of industries. Principles of hardware, software, computation, and algorithm development are introduced. Students learn the fundamentals of basic programming concepts including data types, variables, control structures, logical expressions, and arrays.", "credits": "3"}, "CS250": {"title": "Software Development Lifecycle", "description": "Effective methodologies and models are necessary for developing high quality software. In this course, students learn how to identify and apply appropriate software development lifecycle models and methodologies. All phases of activity within the lifecycle, including analysis, design, development, and testing, are explored with an emphasis on the roles of the contributors within each phase. Software development methodologies are examined with a focus on the application of agile processes.", "credits": "3"}, "CS260": {"title": "Data Structures and Algorithms", "description": "Learn about data structures and algorithms used for analyzing large volumes of data. Focus on common data structure operations, including searches and sorts.", "credits": "3"}, "CS310": {"title": "Collaboration and Team Projects", "description": "Learn how to collaborate on a software project. Apply appropriate change control and versioning practices. Use technologies for supporting collaboration on a project in a distributed workforce with remote contributors.", "credits": "3"}, "CS320": {"title": "Software Testing, Automation, and Quality Assurance", "description": "Learn about software engineering testing strategies and practices, and study how software quality assurance techniques are used through the software development life cycle, including requirements analysis, verification and validation, and quality management.", "credits": "3"}, "CS330": {"title": "Computational Graphics and Visualization", "description": "Provide an introduction to computer graphics drawing algorithms and 2-dimensional and 3-dimensional display techniques. Learn the current software and hardware used for computational graphics and visualization.", "credits": "3"}, "CS340": {"title": "Advanced Programming Concepts", "description": "Examine current and emerging technologies used to develop software systems.  Apply advanced-level programming concepts to solve real-world programming problems. Use various programming technologies or platforms to develop advanced-level programming. ", "credits": "3"}, "CS350": {"title": "Emerging Systems Architectures & Technologies", "description": "Explore emerging systems architectures and technologies. Provide in-depth evaluation of emerging system architecture focusing on performance and the software/hardware interface.  Emphasis is on analyzing fundamental issues in architecture design and the impact on application performance to enable better understanding of the concepts.  Learn to evaluate software architectures, both established and emerging. Gain experience in determining when to implement architectures and technologies to fulfill business needs.", "credits": "3"}, "CS360": {"title": "Mobile Architecture and Programming", "description": "Explore mobile architectures and development tools used for mobile application development including working with various hardware components, emulators and Application Programming Interfaces.  Develop skills in the analysis, evaluation and implementation of mobile computing principles as well as the appreciation of mobile platform project development issues, such as design, development, communication, management, information security, usability and related issues.", "credits": "3"}, "CS405": {"title": "Secure Coding", "description": "Focus on common security vulnerabilities that are found in software. Learn techniques and strategies to develop robust and secure code, leveraging secure programming principles.", "credits": "3"}, "CS410": {"title": "Software Reverse Engineering", "description": "Learn the basics of reverse engineering specific to software systems.  Learn how reverse engineering is used to recreate missing documentation to support legacy software code. Examine how reverse engineering is used to make new software products, enhance the functionality and efficiency of software components, and recreate the code for applications. Apply fundamental reverse engineering technologies and practices for maintainability and security-related use cases.", "credits": "3"}, "CS499": {"title": "Computer Science Capstone", "description": "Taken in the student's final term, the capstone course is the culminating experience for the Bachelor of Science in Computer Science. Integrate previous coursework and practical experience with a focus on authentic demonstration of competencies outlined by the program. Enhance previously submitted programming projects that demonstrates a level of mastery of the stated outcomes of their degree program in computer science.", "credits": "3"}}, "Corporate Social Responsibility": {"CSR510": {"title": "Strategic Corporate Social Responsibility", "description": "Businesses are increasingly integrating corporate social responsibility strategies into every functional domain.  Financial, social, ethical and environmental issues are all part of a proactive approach to corporate social responsibility management.  This course focuses on strategic CSR, defined as corporate strategy that is integrated with core business objectives and competencies to create positive social change and business value. Students will leave this class armed with a tool set of best strategic practices and the skills to analyze, develop, and make recommendations for implementing strategic CSR in their own companies and industries.", "credits": "3"}, "CSR610": {"title": "Business Ethics and Culture", "description": "Business Ethics and Culture explores the main concepts and theories in the business ethics field and provides students with decision-making frameworks and practical tools.  It aims to develop the capacity of students to critically engage with issues of human rights, environmentalism and sustainable development, consumerism, and the role that corporations play in politics, and places these within different philosophical and cultural perspectives.", "credits": "3"}, "CSR620": {"title": "Corporate Governance and Accountability", "description": "A proper governance framework is fundamentally important in enhancing the economic performance not only in individual firms but also in promoting welfare in society.  Companies need to be accountable to wider stakeholder interests and within the context of corporate social responsibility.  The number of stakeholders involved in governance systems is constantly increasing.  Government and other regulatory agencies provide the platform through legislation, and boards of directors, auditors, shareholders, accounting professionals, company secretaries and employees all play their individual roles.  The goal of this course is to introduce students to a wide range of accountability issues and governance procedures in the context of social contact.", "credits": "3"}}, "Counseling": {"COU500": {"title": "The Counseling Profession: Orientation, Identity, and Ethics", "description": "Study the historical trends that led to the establishment of counseling as a profession (as distinct from other helping professions), the impact of the profession on society, and the importance of ethical decision-making in the counseling process.  Explore personal motivations for wanting to become a professional counselor and begin to articulate a personal identity as a member of the counseling profession. Essential questions addressed include, \u2018how am I as a counselor?\u2019, and \u2018what is the role of the counselor in facilitating/supporting behavior change?\u2019", "credits": "3"}, "COU510": {"title": "Human Development", "description": "This introductory course surveys the major theories of social and emotional development throughout the life-span, including grief and loss. Emphasis is given to the developmental stages and transitions and their relevance to the counseling process. ", "credits": "3"}, "COU520": {"title": "Diversity in Counseling", "description": "The course addresses the theories of diversity in counseling. Students examine their assumptions and biases about cultures different from their own and explore their own sense of \u201cotherness.\u201d Students discuss these issues with their classmates as a means for developing the ability to converse with and relate to clients with backgrounds other than their own. Student learning in this course is guided by the essential question \u2018how do I, as a counselor, relate to others who are different from me?\u2019", "credits": "3"}, "COU530": {"title": "Theories of Counseling", "description": "This course surveys the major theoretical approaches used in counseling. Attention is paid to the nature of theory, and the process of building and validating theories of counseling. Students begin process of formulating their own personal theory of counseling, taking into considering how their values influence who they are as counselors and how their backgrounds may inform their client relationships. Students address essential questions such as, \u2018How do counselors facilitate change?\u2019, \u2018How does theory inform treatment?\u2019 and \u2018How do the theories that counselors use both clarify and limit their understanding of clients?\u2019", "credits": "3"}, "COU540": {"title": "Helping Skills and Techniques: Residency I", "description": "This course presents the basic skills and techniques that form the foundation of the counseling process. The course includes a 5-day, in-person laboratory in which students meet with the counseling faculty for an intensive learning experience to practice and demonstrate their competence in these skills.", "credits": "3"}, "COU600": {"title": "Research Methods and Program Evaluation", "description": "Apply the principles of the scientific method to evaluate the efficacy of counseling techniques and community counseling programs. Learn to access and critically evaluate scientific literature and apply the findings to one\u2019s work with clients including making determinations/recommendations, writing proposals, and implementing plans.", "credits": "3"}, "COU605": {"title": "Counseling Families, Couples, and Children", "description": "Survey family systems theories. Explore the interviewing and counseling techniques that are specific to working with couples and families and related topics, custody and guardianship, parenting, and the evolving definition of family.", "credits": "3"}, "COU610": {"title": "Assessment and Evaluation in Counseling", "description": "Learn to identify appropriate assessments, interpret their reliability and validity, and understand how assessment fits in to the broader picture of intake, interviewing, diagnosing, and treatment. Administer several common assessments and evaluate and interpret the results.", "credits": "3"}, "COU630": {"title": "Career Counseling", "description": "Review the major theories of career development. Learn how to help clients explore issues including career choice, leisure, retirement planning, rehabilitation, mid-life career changes, and work-life balance. Learn to administer several commonly utilized career interest assessments. ", "credits": "3"}, "COU635": {"title": "Psychopharmacology", "description": "The course focuses on the knowledge that counselors should possess regarding psychiatric medications. Including the major classes of medications currently in use, drug interactions, and educating clients to understand their medications. Topic include the impact and use of medications (including efficacy and misuse), the counselor\u2019s role in medically prescribed drugs including referring and collaborating with prescribing professionals.  ", "credits": "3"}, "COU640": {"title": "Substance Use Disorders and Process Addictions", "description": "Explore substance and process addictions with ethical and multicultural considerations. Address scope of practice, current trends and issues related to the field of counseling, distinctions related to licensure, co-occurring disorders, and relevant assessments.", "credits": "3"}, "COU645": {"title": "Counseling Sexuality Issues", "description": "Survey the primary issues related to counseling matters of sexuality, including the culture of sexuality (history and evolution), biological aspects, ethical issues, stigma, and the relevant special issues (suicide, gender identity, transgender, etc.). Potential assessments include role-plays and an interview of someone of another sexual orientation or gender identity.", "credits": "3"}, "COU650": {"title": "Diagnosis of Emotional and Mental Disorders", "description": "Understand the value of and controversies involved in using medically based systems of diagnosis in the counseling profession. Learn to make diagnoses using the DSM and relevant standardized assessment methods and to consider client issues from alternative perspectives. Consider the legal, ethical, and multicultural issues inherent in diagnosing clients.", "credits": "3"}, "COU660": {"title": "Group Counseling", "description": "Address the theoretical foundations of group counseling and the stages of group development. Demonstrate an initial understanding of the dynamics of group sessions. Explore ethics and multicultural aspects specific to the various types of groups.", "credits": "3"}, "COU665": {"title": "Advanced Psychopathology and Assessment Techniques", "description": "Explore the field of advanced psychopathology, which includes topics in the historical perspectives, research methodology, and how culture influences definitions of normalcy and psychopathology. Understand advanced clinical issues and current research related to altered development and maladaptive behaviors. Conceptualize cases from a variety of therapeutic perspectives and be able to compare and contrast different theoretical perspectives on each disorder. Develop the ability to support theoretical perspectives through empirical research.", "credits": "3"}, "COU680": {"title": "Prevention and Intervention of Crisis and Trauma", "description": "Explore various forms of crisis, trauma, and disaster that may impact the lives of clients across the lifespan, as well as intervention and treatment methods that are commonly used. Gain exposure to counseling strategies for triaging immediate or recent events as well as long-term and chronic conditions that may hinder individuals and communities.", "credits": "3"}, "COU690": {"title": "Advanced Individual and Group Helping Skills and Techniques: Residency II", "description": "Demonstrate competence in the integration and application of micro-, advanced individual, and group counseling skills acquired throughout the curriculum in preparation for the practicum experience. Participate in a 5-day, in-person residency for advanced skills practice and a 10-hour group experience.", "credits": "3"}, "COU699": {"title": "Counseling Skills Lab", "description": "Demonstrate and practice counseling skills with other students in Residency I and Residency II or as recommended or required by the program. ", "credits": "0"}}, "Criminal Justice": {"CJ104": {"title": "Ethics and the Criminal Justice Leader", "description": "This course examines the subject of ethics as it relates to leadership in the criminal justice profession. It provides for an in-depth understanding and application of ethical decision-making processes at all levels of the criminal justice organization.", "credits": "3"}, "CJ202": {"title": "Writing for the Criminal Justice Profession", "description": "This course will equip the criminal justice student with the skills and assets necessary for writing with the precision, coherence, and integrity that are crucial to the demands of the profession and the criminal justice system.", "credits": "3"}, "CJ300": {"title": "Research Methods for Criminal Justice", "description": "In an era of rigorous scrutiny from entities such as the media and the general public, it is essential criminal justice professionals make evidence-based and ethical decisions. The course is an introduction to basic social science research methods applied to contemporary issues in the field of criminal justice. Students examine the relationship between theory and research, identify patterns, and ultimately draw evidence-based conclusions.", "credits": "3"}, "CJ303": {"title": "Psychopaths, Sociopaths and Serial Killers", "description": "This course is an examination of two antisocial personality disorders and the behavioral traits shared by both. The course will help the student understand the commonalities as well as the unique differences. It will culminate in a thorough examination of infamous serial killers and the disorders attributed to them.", "credits": "3"}, "CJ320": {"title": "Corrections in the United States", "description": "This course examines the United States correctional system from the role of law enforcement through the administration of justice, including offender custody and management, probation, prison life, correctional institutions, and parole. This course emphasizes the contemporary social problems, trends and challenges facing the correctional system, and the complex theories of incarceration. Students will also explore the scope of employment in the field.", "credits": "3"}, "CJ321": {"title": "Offender Rehabilitation", "description": "This course examines evidence-based offender treatment programs and practices. Emphasis is placed on programs designed to rehabilitate offenders, risk assessment, treatment methodology, treatment options, and evaluation of outcomes. Models of rehabilitation explored will include family intervention, counseling, self-help programs, diversion, house arrest, community service, probation, halfway houses, and others.", "credits": "3"}, "CJ322": {"title": "Community-based Corrections", "description": "Community-based Corrections is a critical component of the correctional system. This course will examine the variety of supervision options, including work release, furloughs, community-based programming, residential and nonresidential community supervision programs, and electronic monitoring. Students will have the opportunity to examine how corrections may create opportunities for offenders seeking to establish themselves financially by securing employment, housing, health care programs, and fulfilling the requirements of the sentence received.", "credits": "3"}, "CJ323": {"title": "Correctional Administration", "description": "This course is an examination of the organizational and administrative needs of correctional facilities. Correctional policies and procedures, laws and regulations governing corrections, accreditation, staffing needs and personnel hiring and management practices are studied. Students have the opportunity to examine the theoretical and practical aspects of correctional management. ", "credits": "3"}, "CJ330": {"title": "Leadership and Management in Criminal Justice Organizations", "description": "This course will cover the vital and progressive information concerning workplace performance in the criminal justice profession. It will entail a discussion and analysis of the traits and characteristics of criminal justice professionals at work, along with analysis and development of performance evaluations, assessment and desired objectives for the practitioner.", "credits": "3"}, "CJ331": {"title": "Effective Patrol and Community Policing", "description": "This course will cover the principles and effective practices of police patrol and operations. It will analyze and discuss the preparation and the expectations of patrol and how to effectively perform all duties and functions. In addition, the course will entail an awareness and understanding of the fundamental aspects and best practices of community policing. ", "credits": "3"}, "CJ332": {"title": "Crisis Intervention for Police", "description": "This course will introduce the student to crisis theory, concepts, intervention and strategies required for the first responder. The student will learn how to be personally effective, recognize threat levels, active listening, conduct effective mediation and negotiation for application to situations such suicidal persons, hostage taking and barricaded subjects to cite but a few.  ", "credits": "3"}, "CJ400": {"title": "Crime Analysis and Effective Police Service", "description": "This course provides the student with the assets and tools of progressive crime analysis techniques and the intrinsic relation to the delivery of effective police services. Theory, data collection methods and basic use of statistics will be introduced and applied to various goals of policing.", "credits": "3"}, "CJ401": {"title": "Emergency and Disaster Management", "description": "This course will cover the issues related to crisis and disaster management including history of the topic, integrated emergency management and the methods honed since the 9-11 attacks. The course will focus on the events ranging from natural disasters to the potential use of weapons of mass destruction and the most effective strategies available.", "credits": "3"}, "CJ430": {"title": "Terrorist Techniques", "description": "This course provides the student with the latest and most effective information pertaining to the strategies, tactics and methods used by terrorists. It will discuss and analyze methods of financing used by terrorists, choice of weaponry, and the criteria used for target selection. In addition, the course will cover the most up-to-date and progressive responses to acts of terror as well as preventive measures used by the military and criminal justice professionals. ", "credits": "3"}, "CJ467": {"title": "Threat Assessment Fundamentals", "description": "This course will introduce the student to the basic aspects of attack prevention, identification and assessment of various threats, intelligence- gathering, protection management and counterterrorism techniques used by the military and criminal justice professionals.  ", "credits": "3"}, "CJ468": {"title": "Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance", "description": "This course covers the processes involved in culling data as it relates to intelligence gathering and the methods of analysis. Students are introduced to the various techniques of analysis, evaluation of sources, and testing the validity of terrorism-related intelligence. In addition, the course will cover the tactics of surveillance, intelligence gathering, and the methods used to thwart illegal activities.  ", "credits": "3"}, "CJ469": {"title": "Counterterrorism Techniques", "description": "This course will introduce the student to the most effective strategies, techniques and tactics used to combat terrorism. In addition, the course will cover the organization of counterterrorist organizations, task forces and operational entities, the tools of the trade, along with analysis of counterterrorism policies.  ", "credits": "3"}, "CJ480": {"title": "Capstone in Criminal Justice", "description": "This capstone course is the culminating experience for the B.S. in Criminal Justice program. The aim of the capstone is to assess students' ability to synthesize and integrate the knowledge and skills they have developed throughout their coursework, rather than introducing new concepts. This course is structured to support student success in fulfilling program requirements.", "credits": "3"}, "CJ500": {"title": "Critical Issues in the Criminal Justice System", "description": "This course offers the Criminal Justice graduate student the opportunity to identify, analyze and discuss  the most prevalent issues affecting the delivery of criminal justice and public safety services today. Students will examine the civic responsibilities of criminal justice professionals and the challenges facing our contemporary criminal justice system, while also developing an understanding of the key criminal justice theories.", "credits": "3"}, "CJ510": {"title": "Ethical Leadership in Criminal Justice", "description": "This course will emphasize the principles of strategic management, ethical leadership, and community involvement as they apply to a public safety organization within the criminal justice system. The course focuses on the student's development of leadership qualities that address the difficult questions, such as risk management and budgetary constraints, faced by public safety leaders.", "credits": "3"}, "CJ520": {"title": "Criminology and Public Policy", "description": "This course focuses on the relationship between prevailing criminological theories and the development and implementation of public policy. Students will learn how to evaluate policy recommendations and their effect on a range of public safety organizations.", "credits": "3"}, "CJ530": {"title": "Global Terrorism", "description": "Explore how geopolitics and terrorist attacks influence the world today.  Examine historical events and the impact on foreign and domestic policy.  Students dispel misconceptions and create a new evidence-based response to address global terrorism.", "credits": "3"}, "CJ550": {"title": "Assessing Organizational Performance", "description": "Explore the techniques and methods used to evaluate the performance of a criminal justice organization by examining a real-world scenario.  Students assess an organization to identify factors impacting the overall performance including its mission, goals, structure, policies, and processes. Students use applicable methods and data to determine effective resource and communication strategies for continuous improvement within criminal justice organizations.  ", "credits": "3"}, "CJ560": {"title": "Courts and Judicial Process", "description": "Explore the different roles of criminal justice professionals in navigating critical issues and challenges in the judicial process from the initial crime through the appeals phases. Students compare the procedural impact of local, state, and federal court systems through the examination of controversial court cases and inequalities within the judicial process.", "credits": "3"}, "CJ650": {"title": "Public Safety Administration", "description": "This course examines the key functions and responsibilities of a public safety administrator, including management of organizational structure, strategic decision-making, fiscal responsibility, and coordinated public safety approaches to address fiscal, political, and social challenges. Students examine fiscal management, the problems of governmental funding, service and equipment cutbacks, cost comparison, and accessibility of federal grants. Additionally, the course reinforces ethical foundations in public safety, critical thinking and analysis, and innovative solutions to contemporary public safety problems. Students also explore administrative opportunities within public safety, and career paths to reach these positions.", "credits": "3"}, "CJ675": {"title": "Data-Driven Decision-Making in Criminal Justice", "description": "This course promotes the value of using both quantitative and qualitative research methods in leadership, planning and decision\u2010making. Students learn how to forge data-driven strategies for effective criminal justice problem\u2010solving. ", "credits": "3"}, "CJ681": {"title": "Terrorist Techniques and Counterterrorism", "description": "Deconstruct biases and mindsets about terrorism. Explore modern international and domestic counterterrorism as techniques to mitigate actions by terrorist organizations and extremists. Students gain a comprehensive view of the motivation and nature behind terrorism.", "credits": "3"}, "CJ682": {"title": "Threat Assessment", "description": "Analyze international and domestic terrorist threats utilizing threat assessment techniques. Examine viable responses and communication strategies identified from a critical assessment.  Using these responses and strategies, scrutinize intelligence to create a viable solution to mitigate a terrorist threat. ", "credits": "3"}, "CJ683": {"title": "Intelligence Collection and Analysis", "description": "Examine and interpret intelligence gathered using industry standard practices. Apply structured analytic techniques to review data and information for the purpose of synthesizing and communicating findings to a variety of audiences. Students acquire the know-how in applying the right technique(s) to produce the type of information needed to take action in addressing terrorism related problems.", "credits": "3"}, "CJ790": {"title": "Criminal Justice Capstone", "description": "This capstone course is the culminating experience for the M.S. in Criminal Justice program. The aim of the capstone is to assess students' ability to synthesize and integrate the knowledge and skills they have developed throughout their coursework, rather than introducing new concepts. This course is structured to support student success in fulfilling program requirements.", "credits": "3"}}, "Cybersecurity": {"CYB200": {"title": "Cybersecurity Foundations", "description": "Gain familiarity with foundational cybersecurity concepts and terms. Learn the difference between adversarial and environmental threats and analyze how security practitioners respond to each. Explore legal and human factors and examine how they influence the development of organizational security strategies.", "credits": "3"}, "CYB210": {"title": "Computer Networking", "description": "Learn the basics of computer networking. Examine different network architectures and approaches to network design. Gain practical experience by performing common network implementation and administration tasks.", "credits": "3"}, "CYB220": {"title": "Network Security", "description": "Learn about common network-based attacks and how to defeat them. Explore the use of intrusion detection/prevention technologies and information flow controls to protect networked systems. Analyze security concerns related to virtual systems and networks.", "credits": "3"}, "CYB230": {"title": "Operating System Security", "description": "Learn the techniques and strategies used to protect modern operating systems. Employ best practices to securely provision operating system components and services. Troubleshoot insecure settings to reduce the risk of system compromise.", "credits": "3"}, "CYB240": {"title": "Application Security", "description": "Explore the fundamental principles and practices of application security. Identify common software vulnerabilities and develop strategies to reduce their potential impact. Analyze and assess the security posture of multi-tiered web applications.", "credits": "3"}, "CYB250": {"title": "Cyber Defense", "description": "Explore common strategies and tactics employed by security practitioners to protect networks, systems, applications, and data. Learn the principles of cryptography and examine the critical role it plays in protecting information assets. Analyze the impact of emerging technologies and evolving social trends on the field of cybersecurity.", "credits": "3"}, "CYB260": {"title": "Legal and Human Factors of Cybersecurity", "description": "Examine security concerns associated with humans and their interactions with information systems. Learn about social engineering and how to combat human-focused cyber attacks. Examine the legal and ethical aspects of individual privacy, acceptable use, and other social concerns.", "credits": "3"}, "CYB300": {"title": "System and Communication Security", "description": "Build upon basic operating system security by securing communication between networked systems. Implement transport layer security (TLS) and a public key infrastructure (PKI). Use a scripting language to automate security-relevant tasks and verify compliance with organizational security standards.", "credits": "3"}, "CYB310": {"title": "Network Defense", "description": "Deploy technologies to detect and defeat network-based attacks. Use common tools to operate at different layers of the network stack, implement information flow controls, and develop reliable methods to identify malicious network traffic.", "credits": "3"}, "CYB320": {"title": "Incident Response and Investigation", "description": "Explore incident analysis and response techniques within the context of an enterprise. Learn basic digital forensic terminology and how incident response activities inform and augment digital investigations.", "credits": "3"}, "CYB400": {"title": "Security Assessment and Auditing", "description": "Learn how to assess and audit information systems using structured approaches. Discover compliance gaps, identify security vulnerabilities, and recommend corrective actions. Learn how to effectively communicate findings and recommendations to organizational stakeholders.", "credits": "3"}, "CYB410": {"title": "Security Risk Management", "description": "Apply the principles of risk management to solve real-world security problems. Learn how risk management influences organizational security programs. Explore how the concepts of threat, impact, relevance, and likelihood are woven together to develop balanced, effective security controls.", "credits": "3"}, "CYB420": {"title": "Enterprise Security", "description": "Create and implement a comprehensive plan to protect an organization's assets from relevant adversarial and environmental threats. Employ basic project management methods to achieve milestones, align resources, and foster collaboration with stakeholders.", "credits": "3"}}, "Data Analytics": {"DAT210": {"title": "Foundation of Data Analytics", "description": "The emergence of new data sources is transforming the role of the data analyst from one who simply reports information to one who is charged with making sense of the available data and distilling from it the salient aspects for the given audience. In this course, students will examine the concepts of data analysis and how it informs the business process. Emphasis will be placed on the development of sound research questions, the identification and verification of data sources, the retrieval, cleaning, and manipulation of data, and the process for identifying the data elements that are relevant for a given audience. An overview of the regulatory organizations that govern the release of data will also be reviewed.", "credits": "3"}, "DAT220": {"title": "Fundamentals of Data Mining", "description": "A large portion of data analytics focuses on identifying meaningful patterns in data. Using a case studies approach, students will examine effective strategies that blend both hypothesis testing and data-driven discovery methods to identify meaningful data patterns and apply that knowledge to common business problems. Emphasis will be placed on data-mining tasks such as classification, clustering, and sequential pattern discovery.", "credits": "3"}, "DAT310": {"title": "Data Analytics I", "description": "Learn how to apply a comprehensive approach to data analytics in the solving of business problems by building upon the principles set forth in DAT 210.  Evaluate the tools and resources available in terms of their appropriateness to complex business scenarios. Explore the collaborative nature of data analytics projects and the necessity for coordination across projects through conducting an initial data analytics project and creating a collaborative report of findings. ", "credits": "3"}, "DAT320": {"title": "Data Analytics II", "description": "Building upon the principles set forth in prior coursework, students will engage in a comprehensive approach to the application of data analytics in the solving of business problems employing the techniques frequently used in the discipline. Emphasis will be placed on the different types of forecasting techniques such as sales, risk, retention, and attrition as applied to a variety of industries.", "credits": "3"}, "DAT410": {"title": "Decision Support Presentation", "description": "In order for data analytics to be effective, reports and findings must be presented in a manner that is relevant to one's audience. In this course students will hone their technical writing and presentation skills to engage individuals at all levels throughout an organization. Ethics, security, and privacy considerations as they relate to reporting will also be discussed. ", "credits": "3"}, "DAT490": {"title": "Capstone in Data Analytics", "description": "This capstone course is the culminating experience for the B.S. in Data Analytics program. The aim of the capstone is to assess students\u2019 ability to synthesize and integrate the knowledge and skills they have developed throughout their coursework, rather than introducing new concepts. This course is structured to support student success in fulfilling program requirements.", "credits": "3"}, "DAT500": {"title": "Data and Information Management", "description": "Master key foundational concepts and tools in data and information management. Learn data analysis skills required for data assessment and data validation for creating data structures and data analysis reports.  Gain exposure to common data and information management technologies that provide decision support capabilities to organizations.", "credits": "3"}, "DAT510": {"title": "Foundations of Data", "description": "We live in a world where substantial amounts of data are available at the touch of a button. While this may be a very empowering prospect, it can also be overwhelming. In this course, students will examine the status of Big Data and its impact on the business world, framing analytics challenges using a structured life cycle approach to data analytics problems. Emphasis will be placed upon the verification of data, analytic techniques and open source tools for analyzing data, the role of regulatory organizations, and the privacy and ethics issues that surround its use.", "credits": "3"}, "DAT515": {"title": "Enterprise Data Management", "description": "Understanding the complexity of current data management systems and the ever evolving technology necessary to leverage such data is essential in making sound data-driven decisions. In this course, students will examine the issues in managing data and information from an enterprise perspective, and explore data management as an essential resource to organizational success through a deeper understanding of the concepts and techniques for managing the design, development, and maintenance of all the components of enterprise information management.  The course will examine the roles and responsibilities of the various professionals that manage data and information in an organization. ", "credits": "3"}, "DAT520": {"title": "Decision Methods and Modeling", "description": "The role of many analysts is as much about interpreting the results of data analysis as it is about gathering the data and \"crunching the numbers.\" In this course, students will learn how to evaluate data in context, interpret data trends, and receive an overview of decision support management techniques such as predictive modeling, risk assessment and optimization, and analytics algorithms, which will set the stage for more advanced study in subsequent courses. Concepts from enterprise data management, including data warehousing and business intelligence, will provide a foundation for examining the topics of data mining, advanced and dimensional data modeling, and decision support system development as techniques for an organization's competitive advantage.", "credits": "3"}, "DAT530": {"title": "Presentation and Visualization of Data", "description": "In addition to the gathering and interpretation of data, today's business environment calls upon the analyst to communicate the results of data analysis to a variety of audiences. In this course students will learn how to synthesize the technical components of data analysis into reports, presentations, and visual dashboards that are meaningful for the intended audience and deliver those components in a coherent, convincing format.", "credits": "3"}, "DAT610": {"title": "Optimization and Risk Assessment", "description": "In the competitive business world, using data to its best advantage becomes all the more crucial. In this course, students will learn how to discern the levels of relevancy of data and the impact it has on operations as well as hone their ability to identify macro and micro level risk and evaluate risk management programs, policies, and strategies.", "credits": "3"}, "DAT640": {"title": "Predictive Analytics", "description": "Building on prior coursework in decision methods and modeling, students will get a deeper understanding of the art and science of predictive analysis. Students will examine the elements that contribute to building reliable predictive models that result in actionable performance predictions such as identifying the variables that have the most predictive power and developing and deploying predictive models currently in use. ", "credits": "3"}, "DAT650": {"title": "Advanced Data Analytics", "description": "This course will emphasize the employment of advanced analytic strategies over the entire life cycle of the data analysis process. Using a comprehensive case-studies approach, students will logically extend and add definition to their existing analytic skill set, resulting in the development of a project proposal that will serve as preparation for the capstone experience.", "credits": "3"}, "DAT690": {"title": "Capstone in Data Analytics", "description": "This capstone course is the culminating experience for the M.S. in Data Analytics program. The aim of the capstone is to assess students' ability to synthesize and integrate the knowledge and skills they have developed throughout their coursework, rather than introducing new concepts. This course is structured to support student success in fulfilling program requirements.", "credits": "3"}}, "Database Administration": {"DAD215": {"title": "Introduction to Statistical Analysis System", "description": "The SAS programming suite of products is commonly used throughout the industry for analyzing the vast amount of data that are available today and for turning that data into actionable items for an organization. Through the creation of SAS programs of varying complexity, students will solve common data analysis problems and learn the general programming conventions of SAS along with the data management and reporting utilities of the basic SAS product.", "credits": "3"}, "DAD220": {"title": "Introduction to Structured Query Language", "description": "Structured Query Language (SQL) is at the heart of many data systems. In this course, students learn the basics of SQL programming as it relates to data management, data manipulation, and data analysis.", "credits": "3"}, "DAD334": {"title": "Oracle SQL Fundamentals", "description": "Learn to retrieve, restrict, sort, report, and display data using SQL statements within an Oracle database environment.  In addition, obtain experience writing sub-queries, manipulating data, creating and managing tables, and working with schema objects.  Gain practical hands-on experience in a functional Oracle database environment.", "credits": "3"}, "DAD350": {"title": "Oracle Database Administration I", "description": "This is the first course in a two part series. This course covers Oracle Database Administration Part I. Students will use Oracle to prepare a database environment, create, manage and administer database and user security. Students will also learn how to manage data, concurrencies, undo data, and implement database security. Topics will include database maintenance, performance management, recovery, and backup.", "credits": "3"}, "DAD405": {"title": "Oracle Database Administration II", "description": "This is the second of a two part series. This course covers Oracle Database Administration Part II. Students will use Oracle to design database architectures and automatic storage management solutions. Students will learn how to configure a database for recoverability, to meet backup specifications, and to perform user-managed backup and recovery. Additionally, students will use Oracles Recovery Manager (RMAN) for performing for multiple database administration tasks.", "credits": "3"}}, "Development": {"DEV515": {"title": "Adolescent Psychology", "description": "This course is a study of developmental growth that is focused on the transition to adolescence and processes of physiological, cognitive, social and emotional changes that occur during the teen years.  Middle/secondary education majors are required to do field experience in appropriate grade levels and subject areas.", "credits": "3"}, "DEV536": {"title": "Developmentally Appropriate Practice", "description": "This course focuses on the development of pre-academic skills in young children, highlighting the critical role play has in a child's life. Play is a rich resource for developing self-regulation, promoting language, cognition, and social competence, a method of assessment and a tool for intervention. In this course, students explore how to apply developmental theory to foster cognitive, social, emotional, and language development in young children. ", "credits": "3"}, "DEV545": {"title": "Psychosocial Development", "description": "This course focuses on young children's emotional and social development from birth through age eight, stressing the interaction of biological, psychological, and social forces.  Major themes include how young children experience themselves and others; the role of parents, families, care-givers, peers, and teachers in children's psychosocial development; and the socialization of young children to respond adaptively to the contexts and cultures they live in.  Students are expected to acquire a working knowledge of the emotional and social domains of development through the integration of natural observation of infants, preschoolers, and school-aged children with relevant theory and research.", "credits": "3"}, "DEV550": {"title": "Administration of Child Development Programs", "description": "This course provides students with skills in supervising and administering child development programs.  Basic competencies of administrators are reviewed, such as law, licensing, personnel, budgeting, and corporate structures.  Students are also introduced to governmental and non-governmental structures, public funding and grant writing.", "credits": "3"}, "DEV560": {"title": "Family and Culture", "description": "This course considers how family and culture influence child development including family structures, sibling relationships, parenting behaviors, children's special needs, family violence, diversity in educational settings and the relations between family and community. Students explore their own and other's cultural influences through the lens of diverse cultural perspectives.  The challenges faced by children and families from a variety of cultures and socio-economic backgrounds including communication, interaction, education, and societal norms will be examined from the role of the practitioner.  Research informs student projects in which a particular aspect of culture is studied in depth.  Ten hours of field experience is included.", "credits": "3"}, "DEV565": {"title": "Play", "description": "This course provides students with an understanding of the critical role play has in a child's life. Play is the primary means for learning and development, an important method of assessment and a tool for intervention.  Students learn how to assess play between a child and parent/adult, a child within a group, and a child's solitary play.", "credits": "3"}, "DEV601": {"title": "Child Assessment", "description": "This course provides students with a basic understanding of the assessment of young children from birth to eight years of age.  The primary goals for the course are (1) the purposes and processes of a variety of assessment methods currently used to evaluate learning and development of young children and (2) challenges in assessing young children from developmental, educational, psychological, and cultural perspectives.  Students will learn principles of appropriate assessment, acquire a working knowledge of basic measurement concepts, and gain testing, and alternative assessment approaches for young children.", "credits": "3"}, "DEV699": {"title": "Child Development Practicum", "description": "The internship is a culmination of a student's field experiences.  It consists of a minimum of 150 clock-hours in the field and is accompanied by seminar meetings to provide opportunities for the analysis, evaluation and discussion of field experience.", "credits": "3"}}, "Economics": {"ECO201": {"title": "Microeconomics", "description": "This course examines the role of economic systems in allocating scarce resources to satisfy the needs and wants of individual members of a society.  After a brief exposure to alternative economic systems, the focus becomes the nature and performance of American capitalism.  Primary emphasis is placed upon the development of models that explain the behavior of consumers, producers and resource suppliers in various market structures.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Microeconomics"}, "ECO202": {"title": "Macroeconomics", "description": "This course explores the manner in which the overall levels of output, income, employment and prices are determined in a capitalist economy. The focus is on the forces that act to shape these factors and determine their fluctuations.  The role of government fiscal and monetary policy in influencing the level of economic activity is also a major area of study.  The impact of international transactions on the domestic economy also is discussed.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Macroeconomics"}, "ECO301": {"title": "Managerial Economics", "description": "This course applies economic theory and quantitative techniques to solving business decision problems.  The principal economic framework is that of microeconomics and covers such topics as demand, production, cost and market structures.  Regression and linear programming are the main quantitative tools developed in the course.  Computer applications are a required part of the course.", "credits": "3"}, "ECO306": {"title": "Money and Banking", "description": "This course covers three broad areas.  The first is the banking industry's regulations and internal operations.  The second area focuses on the banking industry's role in the national economy, including monetary policy and its macroeconomic effect on prices, employment and growth.  International banking is the third area covered and includes an overview of institutional arrangements and the effects of international banking on the world economy. Writing intensive course.", "credits": "3"}, "ECO322": {"title": "International Economics", "description": "International Economics develops and explores alternative explanations for the determinants of international trade and financial flows.  Emphasis is placed on analyzing the cause and effect of such international phenomena as trade patterns, factor mobility, direct and portfolio investment, multinational corporations, balance of payments disequilibria, and government trade and exchange controls.  The course highlights the interdependence of nation-states in the world economy and the development of national policies that are designed to alter or control the pattern of international trade and investment. ", "credits": "3"}, "ECO327": {"title": "Economic Development", "description": "Economic explanations for development and underdevelopment are studied in this course. The course focuses on the problems that less-developed countries face and on alternative approaches to addressing these problems. ", "credits": "3"}, "ECO330": {"title": "Public Finance", "description": "This course examines the economic rationale for government provision of goods and services in a market system.  Efficiency criteria for evaluating government programs, tax policy and the current U.S. tax structure also are studied.", "credits": "Offered every fall term. "}, "ECO335": {"title": "Urban and Regional Economics", "description": "This course looks at the causes of urbanization and the growth of regional economies.  Problems arising from urbanization, their effects on local economies and the government's role in solving them are explored.", "credits": "3"}, "ECO360": {"title": "The Rise of Modern Asia", "description": "This course describes and explains the emergence of modern nations in Pacific Asia.  History, geography and cultural traditions are examined and related to the economic development of Pacific Asia.", "credits": "3"}, "ECO402": {"title": "Intermediate Macroeconometrics", "description": "This course develops models of short-to-medium-run fluctuations in overall economic activity as well as long-run models of economic growth of a nation. The former category of models includes the Keynesian, New Classical, and New Keynesian frameworks.  Particular emphasis will be placed on the New Keynesian model.  Empirical testing of the models using computer software will involve the statistical analysis of macroeconomic data.  The primary econometric tools for analyzing this data will be regression and its extensions and modern time series analysis.  Long-run models of economic growth including the Solow model and the Romer model will also be examined.", "credits": "3"}, "ECO500": {"title": "Managerial Economics", "description": "Managerial economics involves applying economic theory and using the tools of decision science to examine how an organization can achieve its objectives most efficiently in the face of constraints. Background preparation: 6 credit hours in mathematics and 3 credit hours in microeconomics, macroeconomics and statistics or equivalent.", "credits": "3"}, "ECO505": {"title": "Introduction to Graduate Economics", "description": "This course serves as an introduction to economics at the graduate level. Exploration of the major schools of thought in economics as well as a historical approach to economics will introduce students to graduate level studies in economics. The historical review of economic theory will provide the basis for economic research. The course will explore economic agents and their interaction with the markets. An interdisciplinary approach will be used for this course in order to show the effects of economic thought and analysis through different areas. ", "credits": "3"}, "ECO510": {"title": "Mathematics and Statistics for Economics", "description": "This course will explore the more advanced areas of statistics and math, with a focus on economics and the methods that are mostly used in the applied economics field. The course will build on the mathematics and statistics background that the students have explored in previous courses. Advance regressions methods will be used, and a number of tools will be used for calculation. This course prepares the students in the Applied Economics degree for the advanced courses in econometrics. ", "credits": "3"}, "ECO520": {"title": "Microeconomics Theory and Analysis", "description": "This course serves as a graduate-level introduction to advanced microeconomic theories and the application of these theories. The course will look at irrational versus rational decision making, market structure, market failure, resource markets, and other microeconomic principles. Modern theory of consumer behavior and theory of the firm will be discussed, along with optimization models for achieving and analyzing productive, allocative, and distributive efficiency. ", "credits": "3"}, "ECO530": {"title": "Macroeconomics Theory and Analysis", "description": "This course serves as a preparation for graduate economic research. The course will explore the three major schools of thought and will lay the groundwork for macroeconomic research. Through examples of static macroeconomic models and theoretical analysis, students will be introduced to macroeconomic research. The economics of growth will be given particular focus. ", "credits": "3"}, "ECO540": {"title": "Game Theory and Industrial Organization", "description": "This course serves as an exploration of game theory and its applications in economic analysis. Various models of static and dynamic games are explored, along with the applications of game theory in negotiations, voting, conflict resolution, and pricing decisions. The course also reviews  industrial organization theory, exploring the interaction between the firm and the market, and the linkage between market structure, firm conduct, and economic performance. The ideas of market power and its regulation through government policy, and the firm's price and non-price strategic behaviors will be discussed. ", "credits": "3"}, "ECO605": {"title": "Environmental and Natural Resource Economics", "description": "This course serves as an introduction to the natural resource economics area. The course will look at the global aspect of environmental and natural resource economics, and will explore topics like efficient use of resources, allocation of resources, population growth, green economics, global trade effects, and global climate change.  ", "credits": "3"}, "ECO610": {"title": "Fiscal & Monetary Policies & Practices", "description": "Students in this course examine the performance of the national economy and its impact on a firm. Students analyze the formulation and impact of monetary and fiscal policies and their relationships with money and capital markets. Background preparation:  6 credit hours in economics.", "credits": "3"}, "ECO620": {"title": "Applied Econometrics I", "description": "This course looks at common econometric models, with a focus on regression models. Through empirical work and analysis, the students will extend their understanding of econometric theory. The course will provide an understanding of the relationship between economic variables that can be used for statistical estimation. The students will learn how to use observational data and how to construct econometric models and methods. ", "credits": "3"}, "ECO625": {"title": "Applied Econometrics II", "description": "This course serves as an extension of ECO 620, providing an even more in-depth look at econometric theory and analysis. Students will build on the methods and models learned throughout the program and will be introduced to forecasting, nonparametric analysis, maximum likelihood, etc.", "credits": "3"}, "ECO675": {"title": "Seminar in Environmental and Natural Resource Economics", "description": "This course will provide the students with advanced econometric tools used in research in environmental and natural resource economics. ", "credits": "3"}, "ECO700": {"title": "Applied Economics Capstone", "description": "This capstone course is the culminating experience for the M.S. in Applied Economics program. The aim of the capstone is to assess students\u2019 ability to synthesize and integrate the knowledge and skills they have developed throughout their coursework, rather than introducing new concepts. This course is structured to support student success in fulfilling program requirements.", "credits": "3"}}, "Education": {"EDU501": {"title": "Methods of Teaching Reading", "description": "This course is an overview of reading and writing processes. The course addresses current trends for teaching literacy including basal programs, whole language, language experience, thematic teaching, literature-based instruction, and technology-based instruction. Students will learn about the components of balanced literacy instruction that includes word attack, word identification, vocabulary development, fluency, comprehension and writing.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU503C": {"title": "Methods of Teaching Elementary Math", "description": "This course focuses on the concepts of mathematics that are taught in grades K-6 and the current methods of teaching that content, including experience with manipulative materials. ", "credits": "3"}, "EDU506": {"title": "Teaching English Learners", "description": "In this course students will study the history, pedagogy and techniques for specific ESL/EFL methods and approaches used to teach in culturally diverse classrooms. The course intends to equip mainstream classroom teachers with background, introduction and understanding necessary to teach EL students. The course will include clarification of issues such as the differences between bilingual instruction and teaching English Learners in the classroom. The course will enable teachers to learn how to modify content and scaffold learning for ELs.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU511": {"title": "Methods of Teaching in Secondary Schools", "description": "This course teaches students how to develop effective strategies and lesson plans for delivering content knowledge consistent with standards based learning.  Using each student's primary content area as the context, this course investigates developmentally appropriate teaching and classroom management for adolescent learners. Strategies and delivery methods include constructivism, differentiation, peer group learning, cross-curricular lesson planning and writing across the curriculum.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU515": {"title": "The Educator as Leader", "description": "Discover the frameworks and approaches used in the M.Ed. in Curriculum and Instruction program. Explore what it means to be an educational leader in today\u2019s rapidly changing, multi-cultural education environments and investigate the many traditional and non-traditional facets of contemporary educational leadership. Examine competencies, characteristics, and practices that relate directly to student achievement and are grounded in current professional standards.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU520": {"title": "The Educator Researcher", "description": "This course provides an introduction to methods of educational research. These methods encourage educators to be action researchers in their own classrooms, school districts, and/or communities to improve teaching and learning practice. Students will become familiar with purposeful quantitative and qualitative research designs to develop an increased understanding of the issues, both theoretical and practical, arising through the research process. An emphasis will be placed on understanding, interpreting, and critiquing educational research and developing research proposals.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU521C": {"title": "Exploring the Principles of Education", "description": "This course offers practice in identifying and developing basic beliefs and values while assessing contemporary philosophies.  It includes a study of the history and current issues of education in America.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU521NC": {"title": "Exploring the Principles of Education", "description": "This course offers practice in identifying and developing basic beliefs and values while assessing contemporary philosophies.  It includes a study of the history and current issues of education in America.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU530": {"title": "Evidence-Based Research for Education", "description": "Learn about the various types and methods of educational research. Examine the value of education focused action research in a variety of learning environments. Develop foundational knowledge and skills to read, interpret, and use data to enable professional growth and improve student learning experience.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU533C": {"title": "Learning through Technology", "description": "In this course, students will develop the knowledge and skills to use technology to enhance student learning and achievement.  This course also introduces students to learning targets (standards/outcomes) and a general model of curriculum development, implementation and assessment.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU533NC": {"title": "Learning through Technology", "description": "In this course, students will develop the knowledge and skills to use technology to enhance student learning and achievement.  This course also introduces students to learning targets (standards/outcomes) and a general model of curriculum development, implementation and assessment.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU535C": {"title": "Early Childhood Health and Science", "description": "This course applies developmental theory to the teaching of science literacy in the early grades. Students will focus on preparing developmentally appropriate experiences that promote investigation, problem solving, and exploration. Methods of instruction and assessment are practiced. Attention will be given to designing constructivist lessons and unit plans that align with science literacy standards.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU537": {"title": "Social Studies/Arts for Young Children", "description": "This course will explore the concepts, methods, techniques, and material necessary to effectively teach social studies and fine arts in early childhood.  Using national and state standards and frameworks, students will develop learning experiences that meet curriculum objectives in both social studies and the fine arts.  Strategies for integrating social studies and fine arts across all curriculum areas will be addressed.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU538": {"title": "Literacy Acquisition for Young Children", "description": "This course focuses on the relationship between literacy environments and acquisition of language and literacy skills from birth-kindergarten. Young children's meaningful experiences with language, books, writing, and representational materials lay the necessary foundations for later literacy development. In this course students will investigate literacies' beginnings at home and in child care settings. The course provides information on how literacy skills are acquired and nurtured in all young children.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU543": {"title": "Learning Theories and Instruction", "description": "This course studies the role of contemporary learning theories and their application to educational practice, including issues of readiness, motivation, problem solving, and the social context of learning.  Students will understand how to apply scientifically based instructional strategies to promote learning.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU545": {"title": "Leadership in Teaching and Learning", "description": "Explore educational leadership concepts by focusing on the characteristics and best practices needed to define and increase success in learning. Employ multiple measures to resolve learning challenges utilizing effective communication and collaboration in ways that empower oneself and others to enhance one\u2019s role as an educational leader. Learn about legal, ethical, and professional issues existing in today\u2019s educational environments that impact effective leadership.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU547": {"title": "Curriculum Development", "description": "This course is a comprehensive, practical basis for preparing school administrators and teachers to be knowledgeable, creative and effective curriculum designers.  Readings will provide students information about the importance and relevance of good curriculum design.  The primary focus of the course will be on the study and use of UBD (Understanding by Design).  Students will develop a working model of a curriculum unit using the UBD framework.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU550": {"title": "Educational Assessment", "description": "This course builds assessment competency by analyzing recent trends in assessment for evaluating and documenting student performance and progress toward desired outcomes. Students examine the uses of assessment at the individual, class and school levels; including New England Common Assessment Data. Students will select and design assessments suitable for instructional decisions that support planning developing curriculum, and making recommendations for instructional improvement. Students will interpret and communicate the results of both externally produced and teacher-produced assessment for a variety of audiences.  Students will describe valid grading procedures and discuss ethical issues linked to assessment methods and uses of assessment information.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU552": {"title": "Assessment for and of Learning", "description": "This course is an introduction to assessment for teaching and learning content in grades K-12. Topics include the types, benefits, and uses of formal and informal assessment. Ethical issues of assessment and grading will be discussed. Students will create assessments aligned with standards-based content.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU555": {"title": "Student Centered Curriculum/Instruction", "description": "The course will emphasize the teacher's critical role as a designer of student learning and will address how a curriculum built on the goal of student understanding using differentiated instruction can provide teachers with more specific teaching targets.  The focus of this course is on the connections between Understanding by Design (UBD) and Differentiated Instruction (DI) as well as the use of standards of Universal Design for Learning (UDL) in the planning and delivery of curriculum for all types of learners.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU560": {"title": "Methods of Teaching English in Middle and High Schools", "description": "This course prepares students to teach English in grades 5 through 12. Students will develop and deliver lessons, find and use education-media, design essay questions, writing prompts, and other appropriate assessments, and choose reading materials appropriate to individual student abilities. Topics include current practices, technology resources, strategies for teaching reading and writing, vocabulary and language building, young adult literature, television and film, questioning, testing and grading, classroom management, and professionalism.  ", "credits": "3"}, "EDU565": {"title": "Methods of Teaching Social Studies: in Middle/High School", "description": "This course helps to prepare students to teach history, geography, economics, civics, and social science areas in grades 5 through 12. A variety of teaching methods prepare students to write lessons and prepare standards-based units that include other disciplines, formative and summative assessments, integrate technology, and to differentiate instruction.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU570": {"title": "Curriculum Design 1: Foundations in Curriculum Design", "description": "Explore the foundations of curriculum design theories and principles used in various learning environments. Apply Understanding by Design (UbD), Differentiated Instruction (DI), and the standards of Universal Design for Learning (UDL), for designing and developing a functional and effective curriculum that matches all students\u2019 learning needs.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU571A": {"title": "Student Teaching and Seminar", "description": "All teacher education majors seeking certification will participate in 16 weeks of full-time practice teaching at nearby schools.  During the 16 weeks, the student teacher receives close and continuous supervision and guidance from teaching personnel at the school and by a member of the Southern New Hampshire University faculty.  This course also includes a weekly seminar at the University.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU571B": {"title": "Student Teaching and Seminar", "description": "All teacher education majors seeking certification will participate in 16 weeks of full-time practice teaching at nearby schools.  During the 16 weeks, the student teacher receives close and continuous supervision and guidance from teaching personnel at the school and by a member of the Southern New Hampshire University faculty.  This course also includes a weekly seminar at the University.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU582": {"title": "Educational Factors of Diversity", "description": "This course examines a variety of factors that affect academic achievement for today's students from birth through the high school level. Students will examine diversity through the lens of race/ethnicity, language, economics, and academics.  Culturally responsive teaching practices, including issues such as gender, ability, class, socio-economic status, sexual orientation, and cultural pluralism will be examined.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU610": {"title": "Ethics and School Law", "description": "The primary goal of this course is for the student to develop awareness of ethical, professional and legal issues pertinent to educational settings. These issues include, ethical decision making processes, legal mandates related to education and special education, professional relationships, confidentiality, supervision, conflict of interest, boundaries and diversity.  Additionally, we will discuss obstacles that relate to the provision of educational services in the school and with children and their parents in general.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU612": {"title": "Educational Law and Ethics", "description": "Examine the roles of law and ethics in education and their relationship to becoming effective educational leaders. Investigate ethical decision-making, aligning with laws and standards, that is critical for any educator to practice. Utilize case studies and theory to explore topics such as equality versus equity, privacy versus safety, and responsibility versus accountability.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU615": {"title": "Curriculum Design 2: Differentiated Instruction", "description": "Implement Differentiated Instruction (DI) strategies for all students, especially as they apply to unique learners. Use multiple data points to design curriculum that can be differentiated and aligned to student, state, and national goals and standards by embedding technology, including assistive technology, in teaching and managing students. Examine DI strategies for English Language Learners, students with disabilities and learning differences, and high performing students as part of a heterogeneous learning environment.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU617": {"title": "Building Community Through Education", "description": "Explore the tools, resources, and knowledge educational leaders must utilize in order to sustain a quality educational program as well as be the drivers of positive change within communities. Examine educational leaders\u2019 responsibilities to and decisions surrounding key community stakeholders such as students, instructors, parents/guardians, advisory boards, and local businesses.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU619": {"title": "Leading Educational Organizations", "description": "Study and reflect on the different approaches to leading educational organizations and the decision-making process inherent in leadership roles. Success in the dispositional qualities of leadership comes with the knowledge and skills of managing people, data, and processes that promote growth for all stakeholders. Examine leadership qualities, finance and budgeting, resource management, strategic planning, and personnel management.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU640C": {"title": "Integrating Digital Technology I K-12", "description": "This course involves the study of the use of technology in elementary and secondary classrooms. Students learn strategies for effective integration of technology into the curriculum. This includes learning such things as how to promote and demonstrate effective use of digital and Web 2.0 tools, how to manage the digital portfolio process, how to utilize assistive technologies.  Federal and state legislation will be reviewed including New Hampshire Department of Education Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) program and the National Education Technology Standards (NETS) for teachers and students.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU640NC": {"title": "Integrating Digital Technology I K-12", "description": "This course involves the study of the use of technology in elementary and secondary classrooms. Students learn strategies for effective integration of technology into the curriculum. This includes learning such things as how to promote and demonstrate effective use of digital and Web 2.0 tools, how to manage the digital portfolio process, how to utilize assistive technologies.  Federal and state legislation will be reviewed including New Hampshire Department of Education Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) program and the National Education Technology Standards (NETS) for teachers and students.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU641C": {"title": "Integrating Digital Technology II K-12", "description": "This course is the second part of the study of the use of technology in the secondary and postsecondary classroom.  Students learn how to plan, implement and support effective integration of technology into the curriculum.  Students learn instructional leadership and how to participate in developing policies, procedures, and budgets that support technology integration.  Federal and state legislation will be reviewed including New Hampshire Department of Education Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) program and the National Education Technology Standards (NETS) for administrators.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU641NC": {"title": "Integrating Digital Technology II K-12", "description": "This course is the second part of the study of the use of technology in the secondary and postsecondary classroom.  Students learn how to plan, implement and support effective integration of technology into the curriculum.  Students learn instructional leadership and how to participate in developing policies, procedures, and budgets that support technology integration.  Federal and state legislation will be reviewed including New Hampshire Department of Education Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) program and the National Education Technology Standards (NETS) for administrators.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU642C": {"title": "Integration Specialist Toolbox", "description": "Students study state-of-the-art digital integration technology tools, resources and methodologies for the K-12 classroom.  This course develops the technical competencies and skills needed to collaborate with content area teachers. Topics range from digital resources and system network administration to end use applications.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU642NC": {"title": "Integration Specialist Toolbox", "description": "Students study state-of-the-art digital integration technology tools, resources and methodologies for the K-12 classroom.  This course develops the technical competencies and skills needed to collaborate with content area teachers. Topics range from digital resources and system network administration to end use applications.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU645": {"title": "Curriculum Design 3: Assessment for Student Learning", "description": "Explore assessment theories and practices as integral elements of curriculum and instructional design. Interpret assessment data from multiple sources and use that data to inform curricular choices. Investigate embedding technologies into curriculum to assess and interpret student learning effectiveness as part of the continuous feedback cycle.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU650": {"title": "Work-Based Learning", "description": "Students investigate and discuss current issues in business and vocational education.  Topics include the effective employment of youth organizations in a program and the efficient operation of a cooperative work experience program.  Class members apply the principles discussed in the course by helping to administer the New Hampshire State DECA Career Development Conference.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU655": {"title": "Curriculum Design 4: Emerging Theory and Design", "description": "Investigate emerging theories of design and learning in today\u2019s increasingly complex technology-enhanced learning environments. Apply theory-based strategies for providing curriculum and instruction in traditional, alternative, virtual, and augmented learning settings.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU683": {"title": "Seminar in Curriculum and Instruction", "description": "Prepare for the Capstone by developing and focusing scholarship and artifacts for the portfolio, including a personalized educational philosophy statement. Drawing from the technology-focused, inclusion-centric themes explored throughout the program, draft an evidence-based curriculum proposal that addresses a self-identified achievement gap.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU685C": {"title": "Global Educational Technology", "description": "This course is intended to provide educators with a global perspective of technology integration in elementary and secondary classrooms.  Students explore the meaning of global digital citizenship and new media literacy.  The course concentrates on understanding cross-cultural awareness, political and economic differences in countries outside of the United States.  Students evaluate, adapt and reflect on emerging tools and global trends.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU690": {"title": "Capstone in Curriculum and Instruction", "description": "Integrate previous coursework and demonstrate the mastery of knowledge and skills developed throughout the program. Synthesize prior learning in order to develop a complete curriculum in an area of interest for utilization, along with the portfolio, in illustrating a cohesive educational philosophy and showcasing growth as an educational leader.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU699": {"title": "Advanced Field Experience", "description": "This course provides an opportunity for the student to put theory into practice. Through a variety of experiences in public schools, the student is given opportunities to practice the theories studied through prior coursework and to build on prior learning experiences. Additional learning outcomes are determined collaboratively by the student and the course instructor. ", "credits": "1 - 6"}, "EDU701": {"title": "Elementary Education Internship K-4", "description": "Internship course for Elementary Education for grades K-4.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU702": {"title": "Elementary Education Internship 5-8", "description": "Internship course for Elementary Education for grades 5-8.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU710": {"title": "Seminar for School Business Administrators I", "description": "This course focuses on the management skills required in the complex environment of school business administration. Students develop the skills that school business administrators need. This serves as a prelude to the field experience in the second semester course.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU715": {"title": "Seminar for School Business Administrators II", "description": "This course focuses on the school law and accounting content needs of the school business administrator. Particular attention is paid to the financial accounting records and procedures that are critical to the performance of the job of business administrator. Background preparation: 6 credits of accounting.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU720": {"title": "Seminar for School Business Administrators III", "description": "This course focuses on the practical application of the skills required for certification as a school business administrator. The major focus of the course is on gaining field experience with a practicing school business administrator. Areas of emphasis include budget development, contract bidding, information processing, human resource management and financial reporting.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU750": {"title": "Seminar in Teaching Writing", "description": "This course is designed to help educators who work with middle and secondary school students to design and plan programs and courses that promote improved literacy practices, especially improvement of student writing. By investigating and practicing a variety of writing exercises, processes, and approaches to improve their own writing skills, students will create a portfolio of ideas and options for teaching others.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU760": {"title": "School Facilities and Finance", "description": "This course offers a study of the management and operation of a school facility and an understanding of school finance as it relates to the teaching and learning process.  Students will learn how to engage school board members in a discussion about how school finance and facility relate to student achievement.  Students will examine various tools and methodologies that support the school process and how to connect with community members in the budget building process. This course aims to make students better managers and consumers of financial information rather than budget officers; students will better understand the real-world implications and consequences of their decisions and allocations.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU765": {"title": "School and Community Relations", "description": "This course explores relationships with the broader community to foster learning.  Students learn how to engage stakeholders, create and communicate a school vision of learning, develop community collaboration skills, capitalize on the diversity of the school community and use the cultural context of the larger community to develop activities and policies that benefit students and their families.  This course makes use of individualized programs of study and experience.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU770": {"title": "Certification Internship", "description": "This is the capstone course for certified teachers seeking an additional certification.  Students complete a full-time, competency-based internship at a site appropriate to the area of certification being sought.  During this internship, the student is mentored by like-credentialed site personnel as well as by a member of the Southern New Hampshire University faculty.  This course also includes a weekly seminar held on campus.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU775": {"title": "Practicum in Curriculum and Instruction", "description": "Students are required to develop and implement two products and/or experiences and document a leadership role in the area of curriculum. Students complete a detailed proposal or plan of study on their goals, product(s), audience, follow-up, etc. for this practicum. The purpose of this practicum is to encourage the teacher as researcher and leader in curriculum development and encourage the integration and application of course work. The practicum is completed during the semester under the supervision of a school district administrator and the student's advisor.", "credits": "1 - 3"}, "EDU780": {"title": "School Organizational Leadership", "description": "The course explores the dynamics of transformational leadership that looks beyond traditional school environments and welcomes non-traditional thinking.  Students will consider themselves \"architects\" of the teaching and learning environments within their schools wherein there is a culture of continuous improvement. Future school leaders will:  explore technology that supports teachers and administrators decision-making; learn how to develop policies and practices that support learning; explore how extended learning time can advantage underachieving students; investigate the benefits and challenges of risk taking and transparency; and look at models of professional learning communities.", "credits": "3"}, "EDU790": {"title": "Practicum in School Leadership II", "description": "Students are required to develop and implement two products and/or experiences and document a leadership role in the area of administration. Students complete a detailed proposal or plan of study on their goals, product(s), audience, follow-up, etc. for this practicum.  The purpose of this practicum is to encourage the educator as researcher and leader in school administration and to encourage the integration and application of course work.  The practicum is completed during the semester under the supervision of a certified school district administrator and the student's advisor.  This course is the capstone of Educational Leadership.", "credits": "3"}}, "Engineering Management": {"EMA600": {"title": "Introduction to Engineering for Engineering Managers", "description": "Explore the various engineering disciplines through a series of case studies that illustrate how an engineer's creativity, analytical nature, and curiosity are applied to develop, produce, and support products. Review key examples of engineered systems, new trends in the field, and concerns such as safety, security, and dependability of systems.", "credits": "3"}, "EMA610": {"title": "Systems Thinking for Engineering Managers", "description": "Examine the importance systems thinking plays in enabling program managers and engineers to identify, understand, and control systems, and to improve their efficiency, effectiveness, and performance. Explore examples of significant system failures, how they might have been avoided, and how organizations can learn from them in developing and participating in current systems.", "credits": "3"}, "EMA620": {"title": "Systems Engineering and Business Practices", "description": "Explore key components of systems engineering such as system lifecycles, system architecture, model-based engineering, and complex systems. Gain the knowledge and develop the skills required to make informed and successful business decisions in highly technical engineering environments.", "credits": "3"}, "EMA630": {"title": "Project Leadership for Engineering Managers", "description": "Explore the concepts, tools, and techniques used for effectively and efficiently leading and managing projects. Identify and develop the skills needed by engineering managers in today\u2019s complex environments including working with diverse teams to achieve a common goal, and the importance of maintaining a big picture view. ", "credits": "3"}}, "English": {"ENG070": {"title": "Academic Writing and Research Skills", "description": "This course focuses on the academic writing skills required of an undergraduate student. It will explore and practice the process writing approach: invention (brainstorming, clustering/mapping, free writing, and outlining), drafting, peer review, revising, and editing. This course also emphasizes the concepts of organization, development, unity and coherence in writing paragraphs and essays. Essay writing will encompass the following discourse patterns: description, definition, division and classification, cause and effect, argumentation. Furthermore, the course will focus on justifying claims by teaching proper source integration and documentation. The academic skills of summarizing, paraphrasing, and quoting will ultimately lead to a scholarly and well documenting research paper.", "credits": "3"}, "ENG071": {"title": "Critical Reading Skills", "description": "This course focuses on preparing undergraduate international students for the rigors of academic reading at the college level.  Emphasis will be placed on critical reading, vocabulary building, vocabulary pronunciation, note taking techniques and text organization and study skills. Authentic academic texts will be used to assist in the development of critical reading and thinking skills.  Students will develop a variety of strategies for understanding the reading, locating main ideas, inferring the author's intent, drawing conclusions and distinguishing between facts and opinions. Students will also learn specific skills for note-taking, outlining, annotating and summarizing.", "credits": "3"}, "ENG072": {"title": "Grammar Workshop", "description": "This course focuses on the development of grammatical accuracy in writing.  Students are taught how to distinguish global errors (sentence structure, tense consistency, and cohesive devices) from local errors (pronoun reference, subject-verb agreement, word forms) in their own writing and to categorize their errors to better understand their specific needs for further study. Students are introduced to other learning strategies as well, such as using available resources and peer collaboration to assist them in developing greater accuracy and fluency.  In addition, students become familiar with common feedback symbols and abbreviations used by college instructors.  This course is offered in conjunction with ENG 070 and ENG 071.", "credits": "3"}, "ENG099": {"title": "Fundamentals of Writing", "description": "ENG 099 is a developmental course designed to help students acquire the composition skills they need to succeed in ENG-120. The course begins with a focus on critical reading skills. Students will be engaged in preparing essays that respond to written texts, thereby combining critical reading skills with writing strategies. In addition, ENG-099 provides introduction to/review of grammar, mechanics, and other college-writing conventions with a focus on application of those skills in student writing. One major objective of ENG 099 is to teach students to prepare essays that review and evaluate the ideas and issues found in the writing of others. Summary, analysis, and response skills will be taught and practiced culminating in the creation of a final portfolio where students demonstrate proficiency in critical reading and writing skills. Classroom instructors confirm placement in ENG 099 during the first two weeks of instruction. The three credits received for ENG 099 count towards a student's GPA, but they do not count towards the 120 credits required for graduation. Students who take this course will have to take an additional course to complete their degree. Classes are kept intentionally small, typically 15 students per section, to assure maximum benefit.", "credits": "3"}, "ENG099I": {"title": "Fundamentals of Writing for International Students", "description": "ENG-099I is a developmental course designed to help International students acquire the composition skills they need to succeed in ENG-120. The course begins with a focus on critical reading skills. Students will be engaged in preparing essays that respond to written texts, thereby combining critical reading skills with writing strategies. In addition, ENG-099I provides introduction to/review of grammar, mechanics, and other college writing conventions with a focus on application of those skills in student writing. One major objective of ENG-099I is to teach students to prepare essays that review and evaluate the ideas and issues found in the writing of others. Summary, analysis, and response skills will be taught and practiced culminating in the creation of a final portfolio where students demonstrate proficiency in critical reading and writing skills. Classroom instructors confirm placement in ENG-099I during the first two weeks of instruction. ENG-099I is required for all ILE students who have completed the 070 series and must be completed before students can enroll in ENG-120. The three credits received for ENG-099I count towards a student\u2019s GPA, but they do not count towards the 120 credits required for graduation. Students who take this course will have to take an additional course to complete their degree. Classes are kept intentionally small, typically 12 students per section, to assure maximum benefit.", "credits": "3"}, "ENG120": {"title": "College Composition I", "description": "ENG 120 is a college-level writing course that introduces students to various forms of academic discourse.  Students are required to prepare essays in a variety of rhetorical modes, including exposition, description and argumentation.  In addition to out-of-class writing assignments, students will be required to compose in-class essays in response to readings and other prompts.  ENG 120 introduces students to process-writing techniques, library research and MLA documentation procedures. The primary focus of ENG 120 is to help students acquire the writing skills they need to succeed in an academic environment.  Enrollment is kept intentionally small, typically 15 students per section, to assure maximum benefit.", "credits": "3"}, "ENG122": {"title": "English Composition I", "description": "English 122 is a college-level writing course that introduces students to the various forms of academic discourse. This course focuses primarily on the basic elements of college composition and writing as a process in both narrative and analytical forms. Students will investigate the importance and promise of effective written communication in various personal and professional contexts and identify effective strategies through critical analysis of written works as well as their own writing. Finally, this course prepares students for more advanced research analysis by connecting students to important avenues of research.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Crafting Your Message"}, "ENG123": {"title": "English Composition II", "description": "English 123 focuses students on the importance of research to advancing knowledge for various purposes. This course will build on the foundations of composition and introduce students to the research process and the analysis and evaluation of various sources. Students will investigate the writing process for research as well as appropriate research methods and skills. Additionally, this course offers multiple opportunities to engage in the important tasks of revision and editing and will ask students to incorporate feedback to improve their writing.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Building Your Argument"}, "ENG220": {"title": "Business Communication", "description": "This course is a practical introduction to the preparation of business correspondence, employment applications and resumes and formal research reports.  Written communication skills are emphasized.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Establishing Your Professional Identity"}, "ENG226": {"title": "Introduction to Creative Writing", "description": "An introductory creative writing course designed to acquaint students with the craft of creative writing and the skills that will be required in subsequent creative writing workshops.  Students will explore such craft issues as point of view, voice, characterization, dialogue, setting, conflict, rhythm, imagery, poetic structure, and dramatic scene development.  Students will be expected to submit a number of writing exercises, including stories and poems.  Student will also be expected to read and comment on their peers' writing with thoughtful and constructive criticism, as well as read and discuss published work.", "credits": "3"}, "ENG323": {"title": "Introduction to Screenwriting Workshop", "description": "This is the first of three courses in screenwriting.  This is a roundtable forum in which students will write short screenplays. Members of the class will read and respond to screenplays produced by other artists, write their own screenplays and take turns presenting them to their class for comment and feedback.", "credits": "3"}, "ENG327": {"title": "Playwriting Workshop", "description": "This course is a roundtable forum in which 10 to 15 students will write stage plays of various lengths using traditional and experimental methods and forms.  Members of the class will produce at intervals to be established by the instructor and will take turns presenting their works to the group for comment and discussion.  The class will produce some student plays during the term.  May not be used as a literature elective.  Writing Intensive Course.", "credits": "3"}, "ENG328": {"title": "Poetry Writing Workshop", "description": "This course is a roundtable forum in which 10 to 15 students will write short or long poems using traditional and experimental forms. Members of the class will produce on a weekly basis and take turns presenting their manuscripts to the group for commentary and discussion. May not be used as a literature  elective. ", "credits": "3"}, "ENG329": {"title": "Fiction Writing Workshop", "description": "This course is a roundtable forum in which 10 to 15 students will write short or long fiction using the techniques of 19th-century realism as well as modernist and experimental techniques. Members of the class will produce on a weekly basis and take turns presenting their manuscripts to the group for commentary and discussion. May not be used as a literature elective. ", "credits": "3"}, "ENG330": {"title": "Nonfiction Writing Workshop", "description": "This course introduces students to the basic skills and principles of writing creative nonfiction and magazine feature articles. Student-centered workshop critiques and frequent conferences with the instructor are the primary methods used in the course.  The course includes significant reading assignments in nonfiction genres.", "credits": "3"}, "ENG340": {"title": "Context of Writing: Writers/Publishing", "description": "ENG 340 is a survey course in contemporary literature designed for students interested in creative writing. Students will study contemporary American literature from a writer's perspective with a special focus on prose style, structure, scene development, and other elements of the craft of writing. Students will also be introduced to the workings of the American publishing industry, including the roles of literary agent and editor.", "credits": "3"}, "ENG341": {"title": "Intermediate Nonfiction Writing Workshop", "description": "This is the second of three courses in creative nonfiction writing.  This course extends the students' knowledge and skills in creating their own creative nonfiction and magazine feature articles.  Students continue to read and discuss genres of nonfiction prose.  During this class members will continue to write and present their work to the group for comment and discussion.", "credits": "3"}, "ENG347": {"title": "Intermediate Screenwriting Workshop", "description": "This is the second of three courses in screenwriting.  This course extends the students' knowledge and skills in creating their own screenplays.  During this class members will continue to produce screenplays and present their work to the group for comment and discussion.", "credits": "3"}, "ENG348": {"title": "Intermediate Poetry Writing Workshop", "description": "This course is the second step in the creative writing sequence for poetry majors and helps students develop as both poets and critical readers of poetry. Students will substantially explore and practice methods honed by distinguished poets of the past and present, with special attention to poems' endings and beginnings, point of view, word choice, imagery, voice, and meaning. Students will regularly critique their peers' work, and they will use feedback they receive from peers to revise and improve their own writing.", "credits": "3"}, "ENG349": {"title": "Intermediate Fiction Writing Workshop", "description": "This course expands upon the content covered in ENG 329. Students will continue to develop strategies for choosing point of view and creating characters. They will explore the appropriate uses of exposition, learn techniques to control pacing, and reflect upon the importance of word choice. Students will practice writing effective dialogue and evaluate how it differs from everyday conversation. Students will also study methods for conveying a story with brevity and creativity and demonstrate their knowledge by writing 'short short' and 'postcard' stories. In addition, they will study and practice techniques for creating effective story endings. Throughout the course, students will continue to practice their skills in constructive criticism, by reading and evaluating the work of their peers and other writers.", "credits": "3"}, "ENG350": {"title": "The English Language", "description": "This course is an introduction to the following topics in English linguistics: history of English, etymology, vocabulary (morphology), phonology, dictionaries, syntax, semantics, dialects, discourse analysis, and child language acquisition.  The course is designed for students who want to learn about the English language as preparation for teaching, or for becoming better writers, or for studying literature.  Students will have the opportunity to research, write about, and present on a linguistic topic of individual interest such as the language of advertising or propaganda.", "credits": "3"}, "ENG351": {"title": "Advanced Nonfiction Writing Workshop", "description": "This course expands upon the skills introduced in the Intermediate Nonfiction. Discussions and student-centered workshop critiques are the primary methods used in the course.", "credits": "3"}, "ENG357": {"title": "Advanced Screenwriting Workshop", "description": "This is the last of three courses in screenwriting.  Members of this class will continue to produce screenplays and present their work to the group for comment and discussion. Upon completion of this final workshop, students' will receive extensive hands-on practice and personalized feedback from their instructor and colleagues as they create their own screenplays.", "credits": "3"}, "ENG358": {"title": "Advanced Poetry Writing Workshop", "description": "Students in this course will continue the study of the craft, tradition, and the contemporary state of the art of poetry. They will explore additional poetic forms, including persona poems and confessional, pattern poems and poems as social commentary. They will read, critique, discuss, and write poems, which they will share and 'workshop' with their peers in class. Students will expand their acquaintance with poetry and its aesthetic values; engage with sophisticated literary analysis of poetry; and explore their own writing with special attention to image, form, line, meter, voice, place, and intent.", "credits": "3"}, "ENG359": {"title": "Advanced Fiction Writing Workshop", "description": "Advanced Fiction Writing is designed for Creative Writing majors who have completed Introduction to Fiction Writing (ENG329) and Intermediate Fiction Writing (ENG349). Students in this course will engage in more advanced study and practice of reading, writing, and critiquing short fiction. They will focus on craft elements such as plot and story structure, characterization, description, dialogue, point of view style and voice, and, of course, revision.", "credits": "3"}, "ENG421": {"title": "New Media: Writing and Publishing", "description": "This course introduces students to the latest trends in new media writing and publishing. Students will gain insight and practical understanding of how today's digital environment affects their field. This course will focus extensively on writing content for a variety of digital formats and employing media to showcase one's works.", "credits": "3"}, "ENG431": {"title": "Advanced Creative Writing", "description": "This course is designed to support a sequence of writing workshops in the creative writing and English major, to provide students serious about their writing an opportunity to study a particular genre (fiction, poetry, scriptwriting or nonfiction) beyond the 300-level workshops. The course also prepares the student for his or her senior thesis in creative writing.  In addition to extensive reading within the chosen genre, workshops require participation in class discussions, student presentations and analyses of other students' work.  Select class periods will be devoted to individual tutorials with the instructor.", "credits": "3"}, "ENG510": {"title": "Studying the Craft", "description": "Reading is an essential part of the writing process. To write an effective piece, an author must first read the essential creative works that have informed the genre and delivered on similar themes. In this course students will study the craft of creative writing in close detail. Understanding and identifying the core, foundational elements of quality storytelling, regardless of genre, is crucial to the advancement of a creative writer. In preparation for the development of their own creative works and techniques, students will analyze self-selected texts for their strategic use of the core storytelling elements, and determine whether or not the author was successful in delivering on his/her concept. ", "credits": "3"}, "ENG520": {"title": "Story and Concept", "description": "How do authors generate creative ideas? How do they know when to reveal certain information? Do the chapters flow naturally from the broader story concept, or should they be planned? What makes for a rich environment? These are the types of questions we will consider in this course. With these in mind, students will conceptualize a writing project of significant length. The focus will not be on the writing of actual scenes or chapters from this work, but on the drafting of plot arcs, detailed outlines, character sketches/development, world-building, and thematic development. The concepts developed in this course may indirectly or directly inform writing projects in future courses.", "credits": "3"}, "ENG523": {"title": "Screenwriting Fundamentals", "description": "In this course, writers will learn the essential elements of screenwriting, including plot structure, character, scene, dialogue, and the craft of visual storytelling. Beginning with the mechanics of scripts for television and film and the process of script outline and written synopses (\"treatments\"), attention is then given to storytelling through script structure with a focus on feature-length film. Existing movie scripts and films will be examined as writers create and build on scenes and dialogue in preparation for the course's final project a short one-act screenplay.", "credits": "3"}, "ENG528": {"title": "Poetry Fundamentals", "description": "This course is designed to deepen writers' understanding and mastery of elements of poetry (including tone of voice; traditional, formal, and \"informal\" structure; imagery; meter and rhythm; and use of sound and diction) and to introduce major movements in English and American poetry. In addition to producing their own poems, writers will read poetry and also prose about poetry by major poets.", "credits": "3"}, "ENG529": {"title": "Fiction Fundamentals", "description": "This course is designed to deepen writers' understanding and mastery of elements of fiction, including voice, point-of-view, theme, characterization, structure, reflexivity, symbolism, imagery, rhythm, and tone.  Writers practice a variety of fiction writing, reading, and workshop skills.  They also study major examples of the novel, novella, short story and representative critical texts.", "credits": "3"}, "ENG530": {"title": "Non-Fiction Fundamentals", "description": "In this course, writers study several genres of creative nonfiction, including reportage and memoir, personal essay and biography, travel writing and science writing, literary journalism, and biography.  Writers explore and master structure and technique through critical reading of modern and contemporary sources in these subgenres and through writing workshops in which they revise their own work and comment on classmates' writing. In addition to becoming better critical readers, writers begin to develop their own unique writing voices.", "credits": "3"}, "ENG531": {"title": "Fiction and Film", "description": "This course provides students with the opportunity to explore storytelling through two of its most popular mediums: film and literature. Students will examine basic principles of storytelling; point of view, voice, rhythm, character and plot development, theme, symbols and how those principles are represented differently or correspondingly in each form. Students will be expected to use analytical skills to dissect stories and recreate their essence through a number of creative writing exercises. They will also be expected to read their peers' writing and use constructive criticism to provide supportive feedback.", "credits": "3"}, "ENG532": {"title": "Studies in Place & Setting", "description": "What is place? How does it impact storytelling? In this course, students explore the concept of place as both an internal and external factor that influences writing. Students will examine the importance of the writer's identity, or place, and how it can shape the physical space and characters within a story. Students will be expected to represent elements of voice, tone, atmosphere, point of view, and time through creative writing exercises that emphasize descriptive environments. They will also be expected to read their peers' writing, and use constructive criticism to provide supportive feedback.", "credits": "3"}, "ENG533": {"title": "Genres: Fantasy, Sci-Fi, and Other Popular Fiction", "description": "What does it take to be a good sci-fi writer? How does a writer become the next Tolkien? Beyond the scope of general genres - fiction, nonfiction, poetry, and screenwriting - there are specific sub-genres to consider at the start of a novel and, in some cases, a career. In popular fiction, these genres tend to cycle through the bestsellers lists. In this course, students select a particular genre to explore in more depth, and apply that genre to their writing throughout the term. While crafting and critiquing these pieces with their peers, they develop their professional identity as authors of their genre, and research and apply methods that will help them market themselves as genre writers.", "credits": "3"}, "ENG540": {"title": "Contemporary Writers and Publishing", "description": "This is a seminar in the historical and contemporary development of literary cultures. Students will examine the driving influences of the literary market, looking at the history and evolvement of the publishing industry, book review, literary organizations, literary awards, such as the Pulitzer Prize, the National Book Award, and others, and how these factors influence literary productions and careers. They will also examine the lives and the works of the most influential contemporary literary writers who have succeeded in the present culture. Additionally, students will prepare for current trends in publishing and learn how to submit their own work for publication.", "credits": "3"}, "ENG541": {"title": "Non-Fiction Thesis Writing", "description": "In this course, writers produce and revise work to include in their theses, continue to offer constructive feedback on class members' writing, and read and discuss major texts of creative nonfiction.  Writers also reflect on their creation and revision processes, and begin to draft a preface that not only describes their own craft, influences, and intentions, but also provides an overview of the thesis.", "credits": "3"}, "ENG542": {"title": "The Editor", "description": "Writing a story is only half the battle. What happens when the writer finishes the first draft and any subsequent revisions? When is the work finally ready for someone else's eyes Should someone be reviewing every step in the process? With expanding opportunities in social media and self-publishing, the role of the editor may be shifting. Whether pursuing traditional publication or new media platforms, writers may be in need of editors now more than ever. In this class, we focus on the relationship between author and editor by placing students in the role of the editor. Students study the different responsibilities of each editor type - from developmental editors and proofreaders to acquisitions editors and copy editors - and where these play a part in the writing and publishing process. Students practically apply the multifaceted role of the editor and compile their feedback as the start of a professional portfolio. ", "credits": "3"}, "ENG547": {"title": "Screenwriting Thesis Writing", "description": "This workshop-oriented course is designed for writers who seek to write a feature-length screenplay for their theses. Writers will share script treatments (plot summaries), outlines, and written script pages, and offer constructive feedback on other class members' scripts, as well as watch films, read scripts, and discuss screenplays.  Through the writing and revision process, writers will submit final feature-length script treatments, outlines, and the first act of their feature-length screenplay theses.", "credits": "3"}, "ENG548": {"title": "Poetry Thesis Writing", "description": "In this course, writers will produce work to include in their theses and offer constructive feedback on class members' writing.  Writers will also read and discuss seminal poems in the English and American traditions.  In addition, writers will reflect on their creation and revision processes, and begin to draft a preface that articulates their own poetic and provides an overview of the thesis.", "credits": "3"}, "ENG549": {"title": "Fiction Thesis Writing", "description": "In this course, writers produce work to include in their thesis and offer constructive feedback on class members\u2019 writing. They also continue to read and discuss published fiction from the English and American traditions. In addition, writers reflect on their creation and revision processes, not only describing their own craft, influences, and intentions, but also providing an overview of the thesis and a synopsis of their final work.", "credits": "3"}, "ENG550": {"title": "Graduate Studies in English Language", "description": "This course is an introduction to the following topics in English linguistics:  history of English, etymology, vocabulary 'morphology', phonology, dictionaries, syntax, semantics, dialects, discourse analysis, and child language acquisition.  The course is designed for students who want to learn about the English language as preparation for teaching, or becoming better writers, or for studying literature.  Students will have the opportunity to research, write about, and present on a linguistic topic of individual interest, such as the language of advertising or propaganda.", "credits": "3"}, "ENG551": {"title": "Non-Fiction Thesis Completion", "description": "Writers select the work they will include in their theses, continue to revise them, and complete a significant portion with a clear outline for the future of their work.  They also offer constructive feedback on class members' writing and complete the preface they began in their previous coursework. In the preface, writers reflect on their craft, articulate their influences, and introduce the thesis.", "credits": "3"}, "ENG555": {"title": "Composition Theory & Teaching of Writing", "description": "Students in this course will study key histories, theories, and technologies on which we ground composition pedagogies.  They will research, discuss, and write about how theoretical concepts impact the teaching of writing; they will reflect on, develop, and share their own pedagogical practices.", "credits": "3"}, "ENG557": {"title": "Screenwriting Thesis Completion", "description": "In this course, writers will work on their screenplay theses through rewrites and group feedback, and offer constructive feedback on other class members' scripts.  Focus at this stage will be given to examining character development, motivation, and subtext through visual storytelling, and in identifying plot inconsistencies and weaknesses. Writers will complete their feature-length screenplay theses.", "credits": "3"}, "ENG558": {"title": "Poetry Thesis Completion", "description": "In this course, writers will select the work they will include in their theses, continue to revise them, and offer constructive feedback on class members' writing.  Writers will complete the preface they began in their previous coursework, in which they will articulate their own poetic choices, identify the major works in the thesis, and explain why they included these works, and why they sequenced them as they did.", "credits": "3"}, "ENG559": {"title": "Fiction Thesis Completion", "description": "In this course, writers select the work they will include in their theses, continue to revise them, and complete a significant portion with a clear outline for the future of their work.  They also offer constructive feedback on class members' writing and complete the preface they began in their previous coursework. In the preface, writers reflect on their craft, articulate their influences, and introduce the theses.", "credits": "3"}, "ENG670": {"title": "Seminar in Writing Instruction", "description": "This course is designed to provide writers with an insight into pedagogical approaches to teaching. Students design and plan instruction that promotes improved literacy practices. By investigating and practicing a variety of writing exercises, processes, and approaches to improve writing skills, students will create a portfolio of ideas and options for teaching others.", "credits": "3"}, "ENG675": {"title": "Online Teaching Experience", "description": "This course is designed to provide students with practical, hands-on experience as online classroom facilitators. Through institutional support, each student will be paired with an undergraduate instructor to assist with the daily and weekly responsibilities that come with teaching. Students will learn directly from experienced professionals best practices toward identifying struggling students, fostering motivation and student engagement, determining appropriate feedback for various assignments, and grading towards established rubrics. In addition to their assistance in the undergraduate course, students in ENG 675 will be enrolled in this graduate course where they complete assignments and activities that support a variety of writing exercises, processes, and approaches to improve writing skills.", "credits": "3"}, "ENG690": {"title": "English and Creative Writing Capstone", "description": "Students register for this course in their final term, as a culmination of their creative writing work in their chosen genres. They satisfy the requirement by completing a creative thesis, or by submitting a portfolio of their creative writing along with a retrospective evaluative essay.", "credits": "3"}}, "English As A Foreign Language": {}, "Environmental Studies": {"ENV101": {"title": "Environmental Science", "description": "This course provides an introduction to the scientific aspects of the environmental field. The first part of the course introduces students to the foundations of environmental science, while the second part concentrates on the application of these foundations to real life environmental problems. Therefore, the course not only engages the fundamentals of environmental science but also shows students how science informs sustainability, environmental policies, economics and personal choice.", "credits": "3"}, "ENV250": {"title": "Environmental Science Research Methods", "description": "This course provides students with an understanding of how to evaluate, conduct, write and design research. Required for environmental science majors, it introduces the why, when and how quantitative and qualitative methods are used as investigative tools. The course follows the scientific method and focuses on how to search the literature, write a literature review, formulate research questions/hypotheses, and design experiments to test these hypotheses. We will also explore qualitative methods and discuss their use in the field with special attention to conducting interviews, case studies, and focus groups. Students will prepare a research proposal on a topic of interest. Formulation of this project begins early, forms the basis for a final project, and is presented in a mock scientific conference.", "credits": "3"}, "ENV305": {"title": "Global Climate Change", "description": "This interdisciplinary course brings students up to date on what is known and not known about the causes and consequences of global climate change, and about viable response options.  Topics include analysis of climate drivers such as greenhouse gas emissions, and land-use changes, and investigation of some climate system responses such as increased storm intensity and increased surface temperature. Students also explore some of the societal and economic impacts of global climate  change.  By reference to the most recent report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, paleoclimate studies, and other authoritative sources, students learn how to separate fact from fiction in the often publicized debate about the dynamics of global climate change and about how we should respond to it.", "credits": "3"}, "ENV319": {"title": "US Environmental Law and Politics", "description": "How can businesses, governments, and public interest groups achieve environmental sustainability goals in legal and political contexts that were designed with other goals in mind? Students spend about half of the course learning how to spot facts that give rise to compliance issues for businesses and other private parties under a full spectrum of federal environmental laws, and to identify opportunities for achieving broader sustainability goals within the constraints imposed by the law. In the other half, students learn both how to predict environmental law and policy outcomes and how to shape them adaptively in pursuit of sustainability goals in a fragmented system of governance that was designed to privilege special interests and to favor the status quo.", "credits": "3"}, "ENV344": {"title": "Environmental Science Colloquium I", "description": "This is an issue and methods based course that will introduce environmental science majors to the tools and technology used in the field.  Students will read and discuss primary literature that use these techniques and will participate in hands-on activities.  A main focus of the course will be on the use and application of geographic information systems (GIS).", "credits": "1"}, "ENV444": {"title": "Environmental Science Colloquium II", "description": "This is an issue-based discussion course aimed to define and explore multifaceted topics in environmental science.  Designed like a senior seminar, students are expected to conduct extensive research on varied topics and then communicate their knowledge in both oral and written assignments.  ", "credits": "1"}}, "Fashion Merchandising": {"FMK290": {"title": "Fashion Merchandising Internship", "description": "Students enrolled in this program will complete a minimum of 150 hours internship in the fashion field. The internship must pertain to the way apparel products and apparel accessories are marketed and distributed. It has to be approved by the career development center and the fashion program coordinator. It is strongly suggested that students complete the internship in the summer between their first and second year at Southern New Hampshire University.", "credits": "0 - 15"}}, "Fashion Merchandising Management": {"FMM101": {"title": "Basic Design and Color Theory", "description": "This course examines the basic principles of design, including balance, emphasis, proportion and rhythm.  The art elements of line, space, texture and color are studied with special emphasis on how they relate to advertising layout and design and visual merchandising. This course is cross-listed with GRA-101.", "credits": "3"}, "FMM114": {"title": "Introduction to Fashion Merchandising", "description": "Fashion principles and procedures used in planning, selecting, pricing and selling fashion goods in retail stores, catalogs and on the Internet are studied.  Merchandising systems, assortment plans and inventory control methods are analyzed.  ", "credits": "3"}, "FMM204": {"title": "Textiles and Color Theory", "description": "Textile information pertinent to merchandising is included in this course. Analysis of fibers, yarns and weaves, fabric recognition, and a detailed study of natural and man-made materials are emphasized.", "credits": "3"}, "FMM208": {"title": "History of Fashion and Costume", "description": "Fashion is another term for the costume of a time and place, an expression of a period with all of its passions, politics, attitudes and history. This course considers textiles, silhouettes, shapes, and design adaptations in light of the technological capacities of the time, the geographic environment, social structure, political systems and economic conditions around the globe and over time. Students will gain an understanding of appreciation of how these underpin and influence contemporary fashion design and development.", "credits": "3"}, "FMM225": {"title": "Merchandise Planning", "description": "This course seeks to instill in students a complete understanding of the influence of merchandise planning and purchasing on retail profit. Students analyze profit and loss statement and demonstrate a complete understanding of the factors that influence the retailer's financial performance.", "credits": "3"}, "FMM325": {"title": "Sustainability in Fashion", "description": "The overall objective of this course is to explore the role that sustainability plays in fashion merchandising managers' decision to buy from vendors. It explores production and commercialization decisions with respect to buying green. It exposes students to the influence of social responsibility on fashion retailers' decisions.", "credits": "3"}, "FMM340": {"title": "Merchandise Management Strategies", "description": "Effective merchandise management involves efficient decision making. Ordering, keeping and managing the right merchandise in terms of size and quantity are the key to a retailer's success. Retail merchandise management brings to light the vital relationship between the manufacturer and the retailer. Students explore various strategic techniques that influence profit including vendors-fashion retailers' negotiations over merchandise.", "credits": "3"}, "FMM410": {"title": "Fashion Research and Forecasting", "description": "This course applies the qualitative and quantitative investigations approaches to fashion and fashion accessories. Students will analyze descriptive and inferential statistics to understand consumer taste for current and future trends in fashion.", "credits": "3"}, "FMM417": {"title": "Global Sourcing and Apparel", "description": "This course analyzes global trades in textiles and apparel. The course explains the necessity of export and import in the textiles and apparel industry. Topics include global trades in apparel (the benefits of export and import), trade policies and trade organizations.", "credits": "3"}, "FMM457": {"title": "Strategic Fashion Management", "description": "Students utilize knowledge accumulated in various courses of the program to design a fashion merchandise strategy for a local fashion and apparel retailers or a strategy for fashion accessory retailers. This course considers both qualitative and quantitative research methodologies to investigate management issues or examine opportunities for fashion retailers.", "credits": "3"}}, "Finance": {"FIN250": {"title": "Personal Financial Planning", "description": "This course provides an overview of personal financial decision-making.  The course uses the life-cycle approach and emphasizes financial planning for each phase of life.  Topics covered include career planning, budgeting, use of credit, insurance, investments, retirement planning and income tax planning.", "credits": "3"}, "FIN320": {"title": "Principles of Finance", "description": "This course is designed to survey the corporate finance discipline, examine the financial management of corporations and help students develop the skills needed to make decisions about financing, investments and dividends.  Students also will be introduced to money, capital markets and institutions.", "credits": "3"}, "FIN325": {"title": "Financial Statements and Reporting Analysis", "description": "This course introduces the importance of strategic analysis through the use of financial statements, the purpose of which is to assess the overall performance, effectiveness, and efficiency of the organization. Students in this course will learn the use, interpretation, and purpose of financial reports-including the balance sheet, cash flow statement, income statement, and statements of retained earnings-using practical strategies that will aid in decision-making.", "credits": "3"}, "FIN330": {"title": "Corporate Finance", "description": "This course focuses on the topics of corporate finance with the intent to extend and further develop the long-term investment and financing topics introduced in either the Principles or Foundations of Finance. The course addresses issues that face modern corporate managers when making capital budgeting and capital structure decisions, and focuses on applied managerial decision-making. Corporate Finance is designed for students seeking a more thorough understanding of the economic analysis of strategic and tactical investments, the effect financial leverage has on firm value, and the integration of investment and financial corporate strategies. Topics addressed include advanced techniques in capital budgeting, firm valuation, capital structure, firm/division cost of capital, and quantitative risk assessment. Writing intensive course. ", "credits": "3"}, "FIN335": {"title": "Financial Markets", "description": "This course examines the nature of global financial markets, reviewing macroeconomic considerations. The role of financial intermediaries in relation to the stock, bond, and mutual fund markets and exchanges are examined. An introduction to regulatory authorities will begin to demonstrate the financial market system. Topics include investments, risk management, risk over return, stock markets, and mutual funds.", "credits": "3"}, "FIN336": {"title": "Multinational Corporate Finance", "description": "This course emphasizes aspects of financial planning for corporations with overseas operations.  The sources and uses of corporate funds abroad are evaluated and criteria for choosing among alternative foreign investments are analyzed.  The effects of international corporate financial planning, including such factors as the characteristics of foreign money and capital markets, international financial institutions, exchange rate changes, currency restrictions, tax regulations and accounting practices, are examined.", "credits": "3"}, "FIN340": {"title": "Fundamentals of Investments", "description": "This course introduces and examines various investment vehicles, including stocks, bonds, mutual funds and commodities. This course emphasizes the decision-making process that underlies all investment decisions.", "credits": "3"}, "FIN341": {"title": "Financial Regulations and Ethics", "description": "This course emphasizes the important roles of regulations and ethics to make financial decisions that support the organization's overall strategic goals. Students in this course will explore applicable regulations and ethical considerations in support of fiduciary responsibilities, reviewing securities regulations, GAAP, SoX, and international reporting standards. The curriculum foundation is grounded on corporate social responsibility and business sustainability through the application of regulations and ethics.", "credits": "3"}, "FIN350": {"title": "Advanced Personal Financial Planning", "description": "Explore the comprehensive financial planning process and develop financial knowledge to assist in collecting client data for the decision-making process used to make informed client recommendations. Analyze various client scenarios to determine and effectively communicate individualized recommendations covering various topics on the financial planning spectrum.", "credits": "3"}, "FIN355": {"title": "Risk Management and Insurance Planning", "description": "Examine strategies to mitigate financial risk through risk management techniques to protect income, assets and financial plans. Differentiate between insurance types and products and be able to conduct an insurance needs  analysis to make informed client recommendations.", "credits": "3"}, "FIN450": {"title": "Wealth Management", "description": "This course provides an overview of real-world considerations of personal and business wealth management that include personal finance, real-estate management, career planning, budgeting, and tax management. Students will explore investment theory, risk, and asset allocation strategies.", "credits": "3"}, "FIN460": {"title": "Estate Planning and Taxation", "description": "Examine estate planning techniques used to optimize an estate\u2019s value and to ensure a seamless transition of assets upon an individual\u2019s death. Explore appropriate questions to ask in order to collect the information needed for evaluation of, and recommended changes to, the estate plan. Students familiarize themselves with the different parties involved in an estate plan.", "credits": "3"}, "FIN470": {"title": "Undergraduate Finance Capstone", "description": "This capstone course is the culminating experience for the B.S. in Finance program. The aim of the capstone is to assess students\u2019 ability to synthesize and integrate the knowledge and skills they have developed throughout their coursework, rather than introducing new concepts. This course is structured to support student success in fulfilling program requirements.", "credits": "3"}, "FIN485": {"title": "Financial Plan Development", "description": "Demonstrate ability in the role of financial planner to synthesize and apply financial planning knowledge and skills through developing a financial plan.  Expertise and skills required include  conduct and regulation, general principles and regulation, education planning, risk management and insurance planning, investment planning, tax planning, retirement savings and income planning, and estate planning to develop a comprehensive financial plan.", "credits": "3"}, "FIN490": {"title": "Finance Economics Internship", "description": "The finance/economics internship option is a semester of supervised career-related work experience.  Students are required to prepare monthly on-the-job reports and a final written analysis in a case-study format.", "credits": "0 - 15"}, "FIN550": {"title": "Corporate Financial Management", "description": "This course is a study of finance from a corporate perspective including investments, capital structure and re-structuring, budgeting, financial markets, policy, and portfolio management. Students will analyze a firm's opportunities and risk level within these categories to evaluate the impact on shareholder's value.", "credits": "3"}, "FIN610": {"title": "Short-Term Financial Management", "description": "The course covers traditional working capital topics, including liquidity analysis and management, inventory, and receivables and payables management.  Additional emphasis is given to core cash management, payment systems and banking relationships.  Other topics include cash forecasting, short-term borrowing and risk management.", "credits": "3"}, "FIN620": {"title": "Money and Capital Markets", "description": "This course analyzes processes within the U.S. financial system.  Students study the nature of its major participants and their objectives and procedures for assessing opportunities and pricing risk.  Students also analyze the role of the financial system in the allocation of credit to different sectors, its responsiveness to economic activity and its continuous adaptation to changing needs.  Emphasis is placed on the role and functions of the Federal Reserve System.", "credits": "3"}, "FIN630": {"title": "Capital Budgeting & Financing", "description": "This course first addresses advanced topics in capital investment, including determination of cash flows, capital budgeting under risk, replacement decisions, and inflation and capital decisions.  The second half of the course focuses on capital financing and structure and includes topics in financial leverage, financing sources, dividend policy, cost of capital and valuation.", "credits": "3"}, "FIN640": {"title": "Investment Analysis & Portfolio Management", "description": "Students study the techniques used to assess the value of securities and the methods used in the management of investment portfolios.  Stocks and bonds are discussed in terms of valuation, risk- return measurement, diversification and other aspects of portfolio theory.", "credits": "3"}, "FIN645": {"title": "Analytical Tools in Portfolio Management", "description": "This course is an application-oriented review of the finance theory, techniques and strategies that are essential to portfolio management.  Topics include optimization procedure, currency risk hedging, asset allocation and others.", "credits": "3"}, "FIN655": {"title": "International Investments/Portfolio Management", "description": "This course will expose money managers to the complexities of a multicultural, multicurrency environment.  In a complex global environment they have to be familiar with foreign cultures, traditions, markets, institutions, instruments, regulations, taxes, and costs.  They need to be familiar with the forces of globalization as they affect international investing.  This course seeks to impart some of the concepts, techniques, and skills the money manager should be equipped with to operate effectively in complex global environment.", "credits": "3"}, "FIN660": {"title": "Creating Value: Merger/Acquisition", "description": "This course is intended to extend and further develop the long-term investment and financing topics introduced in earlier courses. The course focuses on applied managerial decision-making, and is designed for students seeking a more thorough understanding of the economic analysis of mergers and acquisitions and the effect capital structure decisions have on firm value. Topics addressed include advanced techniques in capital budgeting, firm (division) valuation, capital structure, firm (division) cost of capital, and quantitative risk assessment.", "credits": "3"}, "FIN665": {"title": "Long-Term Financing & Capital Structure Theory", "description": "This course is an application-oriented review of modern capital structure theories and long-term financing approaches. Students learn how to make value-maximizing capital structure and financing decisions as a manager.  Students also are introduced to the analysis of capital structure and financial policy in the perspectives of investors, shareholders, debtors and other stakeholders using case method, and their implication on how a firm can maximize its value by making optimal capital structure and financing decisions. Topics include theories of capital structure decision, capital structure determinants, capital structure and cost of capital corporate strategy, sources of financing and financial markets, the financing of mergers and acquisitions and others.", "credits": "3"}, "FIN670": {"title": "Option Analysis & Financial Derivatives", "description": "Modern option valuation and analysis is applied to equity options and fixed-income derivatives in this course.  Applications and related topics include the term structure of interest rates, forward contracts, future contracts, interest rate caps, floors and swaps and convertible bonds.", "credits": "3"}, "FIN680": {"title": "Personal Financial Planning", "description": "This course covers aspects of financial planning including historical development, personal financial statements, household budgeting, income tax planning, insurances, investment tools, retirement planning and estate planning. Emphasis is placed on ethical and responsible completion of fiduciary duties of a financial planner as well as skills and behaviors necessary for a duly beneficial relationship between client and planner. Other topics include current financial events, behavioral finance and international investing.", "credits": "3"}, "FIN685": {"title": "Risk Management", "description": "This course focuses on assessing and mitigating risk within the financial industry. Students will evaluate corporate investments, diversification, and portfolios using current industry tools and strategies to manage both risk and return.", "credits": "3"}, "FIN687": {"title": "Estate Planning and Tax Factors", "description": "See program chair for course description.", "credits": "3"}, "FIN691": {"title": "Financial Modeling", "description": "The course focuses on financial modeling as a tool in contemporary financial analysis. The course includes theoretical development, financial analysis, applications of financial modeling, and modeling approaches. Students use mathematical tools and apply statistical tests to evaluate and analyze a company's financial health, performance, and risk level of informed decision making.", "credits": "3"}, "FIN700": {"title": "Graduate Finance Capstone", "description": "This capstone course is the culminating experience for the M.S. in Finance program. The aim of the capstone is to assess students\u2019 ability to synthesize and integrate the knowledge and skills they have developed throughout their coursework, rather than introducing new concepts. This course is structured to support student success in fulfilling program requirements.", "credits": "3"}, "FIN710": {"title": "Economics/Finance Internship", "description": "This course is to enable the School of Business graduate students to gain valuable work experience within the field of Finance and Economics. The objective is to give the students an opportunity for practical application of Finance and/or Economic business concepts/practices learned in classes and complement the course work taken. Secondarily, internships offer the opportunity to develop crucial job searching skills, explore career interests, enhance your resume, make contacts in your chosen field and build references for future employment. Each intern will work in a career-related position during the academic term for which the student is enrolled for the internship - completing a minimum of 150 hours on the job per 3 credits.", "credits": "3"}}, "Fine Arts": {"FAS110": {"title": "Introductory Drawing", "description": "In this course, students are introduced to the fundamentals of drawing from observation and imagination in a variety of media. A series of in-class drawing exercises will introduce the basic visual elements and their application to pictorial composition. Still life, figurative, and abstract drawing projects will afford students multi-faceted experiences in the creation of composition. Class meets 60 hours per term.", "credits": "3"}, "FAS201": {"title": "Introduction to Humanities I", "description": "This course offers vocabulary, understanding and appreciation of the visual arts in their cultural contexts in history, religion, literature, music and ideas.  It focuses on the achievements of ancient Greece and Rome, the medieval period and the Renaissance while also exploring related issues in non-European cultures.  May be taken independently of FAS-202.", "credits": "3"}, "FAS202": {"title": "Introduction to Humanities II", "description": "This course offers vocabulary, understanding and appreciation of the visual arts in their cultural contexts in history, religion, literature, music and ideas.  It focuses on the cultural periods of the Baroque, the Enlightenment, Romanticism and Early Modernism while also exploring related issues in non-European cultures.  May be taken independently of FAS-201.", "credits": "3"}, "FAS226": {"title": "Digital Photography", "description": "Photography as a visual medium is integral to the study of contemporary communication. This course introduces students to the history and practice of producing photographic images. The course is a combination of lecture and the hands-on practice of both the analog and digital methods of photographic image-making. The traditional darkroom is dispensed with, giving over to the computer the role of dark-room, with the student using Adobe Photoshop and other image editors to process traditional film and digital image captures. The student is taught to use  various digital cameras techniques to capture, process, and print a portfolio of several original photographic images. Lectures on pictorial composition, subject matter choice, and methods of presentation display will accompany hands-on technical exercises.", "credits": "3"}, "FAS235": {"title": "Photographic Practice in the Digital Age", "description": "As the practice of digital photography leverages new technical skills through software programs and digital editing, it is critically important that practicing photographers gain a greater understanding of emerging methods for producing, editing, and distributing photographic works. This course provides an intermediate experience in the process of generating portfolios of digital images for presentation, distribution, or exhibition. Key to this experience is a broad understanding of design concepts that lead to decisions in coloring, resolution, formatting, and so on to produce high quality images that reflect a creative point of view. Students are exposed to advanced techniques using industry standard software to manipulate digital works for print and digital output, including color theory, management, calibration, and standard file formatting.", "credits": "3"}, "FAS240": {"title": "The Business of Photography", "description": "This course serves as an introduction to the business practices of photography, focusing on the legal, marketing, and entrepreneurial aspects of the highly competitive photography industry today. Students gain valuable exposure to best practices recommended for working with clients and agencies, setting up an entrepreneurial business, developing appropriate contracts, licensing works, setting a pricing structure, attaining model and property release forms, and managing overhead costs, among other topics. This course culminates in students determining their next steps in their professional development, including how to drive their personal visions and brands as practicing photographers.", "credits": "3"}, "FAS255": {"title": "Lighting for Photography", "description": "The act of photography inherently depicts how light reacts and reflects its subject matter, while also communicating different emotions, moods, and feelings to the audience.  This course serves as a comprehensive introduction to how light is used and manipulated for different purposes and effects. Topics covered include using ambient light versus flash or studio light for different subject matter (portraits, editorial work, fine art, etc.), angle of light and how it influences the look of the subject matter, using a single light source versus multiple light sources, how to blend ambient light with strobe lighting, using long exposures and film speed to manipulate the look of your imagery, along with other purposeful techniques for manipulating the aesthetics of light. ", "credits": "3"}, "FAS270": {"title": "Introduction to Film History", "description": "As an overview of film history and aesthetics, this course explores film history from 1895 to the present.  Emphasis is on the development of film as a technology, an art form, an industry, and a cultural institution.  The class will research and discuss genres, movements, directors, and landmarks in film history.  Students will view films, participate in in-class and online discussions of films and readings, attend lectures, and write a collaborative research project.", "credits": "3"}, "FAS310": {"title": "Illustration", "description": "This course builds upon skills and concepts learned in FAS-110 (Introductory Drawing) with the focus shifting to applications of drawing in projects related to the discipline of graphic design. Drawing skills will be applied to such practical applications as storyboarding, text illustration and display, packaging design, web design, video animation and multimedia.", "credits": "3"}, "FAS320": {"title": "History of Design", "description": "This course introduces the major movements in the history of design since the Industrial Revolution, including the Arts & Crafts Movement, Art Nouveau, Art Deco, the Bauhaus, Constructivism, and contemporary trends in popular design.  Students will be encouraged to apply their learning to practical design exercises.", "credits": "3"}, "FAS326": {"title": "History of Photography", "description": "This course will examine the history of photography from its invention in 1839 to the present time.  The course will endeavor to address the technical artistic and social underpinnings of this most modern of art forms.", "credits": "3"}, "FAS342": {"title": "Modernism", "description": "This course will examine the development of painting and sculpture in Europe from the 1880s through 1945 in relation to its social, cultural, and political contexts. An incredibly rich period for the visual arts, the Modernist movement stands alone in its dazzling array of visual styles, its passionate and at times tumultuous involvement with politics and social concerns, and its international scope.", "credits": "3"}, "FAS360": {"title": "Innovations in Digital Imaging", "description": "Numerous advancements in digital imaging have created an exigent need for working professionals to remain on the cutting edge of these practices. This course provides students with an opportunity to research advancements in digital imaging and digital photography techniques with the intent of enhancing their own photographic practices. Students are expected to apply a selection of these emerging techniques and articulate the process, creative choices, and outcomes produced in their work.", "credits": "3"}, "FAS370": {"title": "American Art", "description": "This course will introduce students to the unique artistic tradition of the United States from Colonial times to World War II. In addition to studying masterworks by the likes of Copley, Cole, Church, Homer, Sargent, and Hopper, students will engage with issues such as the construction of an American identity, the role of the fine arts in American society, and the tensions of class, gender, race, and ethnicity in American art. As such the course will function as a vibrant retelling of American history as revealed in its visual production.", "credits": "3"}, "FAS375": {"title": "Photographic Aesthetic Concepts", "description": "This course explores various aesthetic theories of photographic practice and the evolution of photography as a respectable fine art medium available to contemporary artists and subject to critical inquiry. Students learn how photographic images shape our understanding of both the past and present as well as the very nature of photography as an art form and how this has changed over time. Besides theory, students also explore through hands on practice the methods and techniques for developing one's own aesthetic characteristics and personal style in photographic work. ", "credits": "3"}, "FAS380": {"title": "Women, Art and Society", "description": "This course explores the nature of gendered representation in the history of art from the Renaissance to the present.  While the primary focus will be on the representation of women and the work of women artists, the construction of masculinity in the arts will also be addressed. Art will be examined in relation to its political, social, economic, and religious context to establish the broader implications of these visual documents.  The student will gain a broadly inclusive understanding of the Western artist tradition as well as sensitivity to gender issues and the gendered nature of representation.", "credits": "3"}, "FAS400": {"title": "Digital Narratives and Documentary", "description": "Participate in an advanced exploration of the concepts of narrative and linear vs. non-linear imagery. Research the history of documentary photography, focusing on how creative works produced as professionals can be used to make an impact on communities and audiences. With an emphasis on storytelling through creative imagery, develop a digital narrative showcasing advanced techniques in camerawork, lighting, and other pre- and post-production skills.", "credits": "3"}, "FAS485": {"title": "Digital Photography Portfolio", "description": "The digital photography portfolio course provides students with a comprehensive development opportunity to showcase their professional work, establish a branded identity as a working professional, and engage in peer and professional critiques of design work in preparation for formal employment and contract interviews. Students create both digital and print-ready portfolios that demonstrate their competencies in the digital photography program outcomes.", "credits": "3"}}, "Fine Arts-Masters": {"MFA505": {"title": "Introduction to the Online MFA", "description": "Explore a unique culture and approach to fiction writing at SNHU that embraces practicality, diversity and community. Understand the history and major categories of genre fiction, including the role genre plays for readers, writers, and publishers. Develop techniques for effective workshopping. Discover habits and behaviors that support the creative process and forge ties with a peer and faculty community that support a rewarding writing career. ", "credits": "3"}, "MFA507": {"title": "Advanced Studies in Literature", "description": "Study classic and contemporary literature by exploring published authors\u2019 usage of creative writing craft elements. Analyze the applications of these storytelling craft elements in published literature, and identify why the literature, as a cohesive whole, is successful. Develop individual approaches to the \u201cwriter\u2019s toolkit,\u201d by employing the craft elements of storytelling into personal works for advancing a career as a creative writer.  ", "credits": "3"}, "MFA509": {"title": "Storytelling", "description": "Analyze and practice fundamentals of storytelling, including narrative arc, plot, and character development. Deconstruct popular stories in literature and film to understand characteristics of beginnings that hook, tension-building middles and satisfying endings. Refine and polish an original premise through workshop and reflection. Apply techniques to your own stories. ", "credits": "3"}, "MFA514": {"title": "Advanced Studies in Genre Literature", "description": "Cultivate an appreciation for several literary genres through the study of various important works, authors, key historical developments, characteristic tropes, and conventions. Prepare for upcoming cross-genre creative writing workshops. Analyze one genre novel for how it fits within the literary landscape in preparation for genre concentration selection. Research market trends to gain a practical grasp of how a genre\u2019s history continues to influence popular books today.", "credits": "3"}, "MFA524": {"title": "Contemporary Fiction Writing I", "description": "Explore the various characteristics and elements that describe the Contemporary Fiction Writing genre. Formulate an initial novel-writing premise, applying early conceptualizations of character arcs, plot arcs, motivation, pacing, and research. Develop an individualized approach to structuring stories through immersion in titles within the genre landscape.", "credits": "3"}, "MFA525": {"title": "Romance Fiction Writing I", "description": "Explore the various characteristics and elements that describe the Romance Fiction Writing genre. Formulate an initial novel-writing premise, applying early conceptualizations of character arcs, plot arcs, motivation, pacing, and research. Develop an individualized approach to structuring stories through immersion in titles within the genre landscape.", "credits": "3"}, "MFA526": {"title": "Young Adult Fiction Writing I", "description": "Explore the various characteristics and elements that describe the Young Adult Fiction Writing genre. Formulate an initial novel-writing premise, applying early conceptualizations of character arcs, plot arcs, motivation, pacing, and research. Develop an individualized approach to structuring stories through immersion in titles within the genre landscape.", "credits": "3"}, "MFA527": {"title": "Speculative Fiction Writing I", "description": "Explore the various characteristics and elements that describe the Speculative Fiction Writing genre.\nFormulate an initial novel-writing premise, applying early conceptualizations of character arcs, plot arcs, motivation, pacing, and research. Develop an individualized approach to structuring stories through immersion in titles within the genre landscape.", "credits": "3"}, "MFA600": {"title": "The Publishing Ecosystem", "description": "Follow the journey of publication from initial manuscript submission to a finished book in a reader\u2019s hands. Investigate business models and key roles in the publishing world, learn conventions of submission, and identify networking opportunities. Research the critical organizations, communities, and industry publications and resources unique to a chosen genre.", "credits": "3"}, "MFA602": {"title": "The Business of Writing", "description": "Explore the many methods and strategies that professional writers employ to leverage their creative talents into financially sustaining work. Investigate the many types of writing opportunities available beyond book publishing, and learn how to start and grow a successful freelance business. Research freelance opportunities, learn how to manage a sole proprietorship, and find resources about various industry tools and conventions.", "credits": "3"}, "MFA604": {"title": "Finding and Reaching an Audience", "description": "Develop strategies to find a readership and build an audience. Investigate approaches and tools for building a writer\u2019s platform and increasing visibility in a chosen market. Create a customized, multi-faceted plan to cultivate and engage new fans.", "credits": "3"}, "MFA606": {"title": "Copy and Content Writing", "description": "Target a specific readership by applying copywriting and content writing skills. Learn how to write effectively and persuasively for marketing purposes, particularly when crafting book descriptions or book marketing materials, social media posts, email newsletters, and other types of copy. Focus on producing effective headlines and content for search engine optimization purposes.   ", "credits": "3"}, "MFA607": {"title": "Copy and Content Writing Internship", "description": "Target a specific readership by applying copywriting and content writing skills. Learn how to write effectively and persuasively for marketing purposes, particularly when crafting book descriptions or book marketing materials, social media posts, email newsletters, and other types of copy. Focus on producing effective headlines and content for search engine optimization purposes. Internship.", "credits": "3"}, "MFA608": {"title": "Editing and Coaching", "description": "Define and practice the types of editing and examine their use at different stages of revision. Become familiar with methods of revision and editing in order to apply them to one\u2019s own writing and that of their clients. Explore the role of the editor-as-coach, and practice a coaching approach to editing. Learn strategies for building an editing and coaching clientele.", "credits": "3"}, "MFA624": {"title": "Contemporary Fiction Writing II", "description": "Continue to explore the conventions, tools, and skills required for writing a successful Contemporary Fiction novel, with emphasis on implementing worldbuilding and setting, dialogue, voice, style, and pacing. Compose, workshop, and revise an original scene intended for a novel. Examine ideas that tie scenes together, such as foreshadowing, backstory, flashback, and subplot.", "credits": "3"}, "MFA625": {"title": "Romance Fiction Writing II", "description": "Continue to explore the conventions, tools, and skills required for writing a successful Romance Fiction novel, with emphasis on implementing worldbuilding and setting, dialogue, voice, style, and pacing. Compose, workshop, and revise an original scene intended for a novel. Examine ideas that tie scenes together, such as foreshadowing, backstory, flashback, and subplot.", "credits": "3"}, "MFA626": {"title": "Young Adult Fiction Writing II", "description": "Continue to explore the conventions, tools, and skills required for writing a successful Young Adult Fiction novel, with emphasis on implementing worldbuilding and setting, dialogue, voice, style, and pacing. Compose, workshop, and revise an original scene intended for a novel. Examine ideas that tie scenes together, such as foreshadowing, backstory, flashback, and subplot.", "credits": "3"}, "MFA627": {"title": "Speculative Fiction Writing II", "description": "Continue to explore the conventions, tools, and skills required for writing a successful Speculative Fiction novel, with emphasis on implementing worldbuilding and setting, dialogue, voice, style, and pacing. Compose, workshop, and revise an original scene intended for a novel. Examine ideas that tie scenes together, such as foreshadowing, backstory, flashback, and subplot.", "credits": "3"}, "MFA630": {"title": "Writing Short Works", "description": "Explore the many avenues for publication through production of short works. Learn and practice fundamentals of flash fiction, short story, articles, and serial fiction. Become familiar with the submission process and business models of magazines, journals, and other media. Develop an awareness of key publishers within particular genres. Produce, workshop, and submit an article or original short work.", "credits": "3"}, "MFA640": {"title": "Engaging Online Writing Students", "description": "It is not enough to offer interesting content and accessible design in an online course. Students must also be engaged for the best learning to take place. Learn best practices for maximizing student engagement through the curriculum. Develop the \u201csoft skills\u201d online writing instructors need when encouraging participation, providing feedback, and fostering creativity and excellence.", "credits": "3"}, "MFA700": {"title": "Thesis Writing I", "description": "Begin to develop the novel that serves as a thesis for the MFA program. Build a detailed plan that documents the writing process and prepares next steps to be taken toward novel completion. Engage in constructive workshopping, and reflect both on one\u2019s place within a literary community and on how one\u2019s work fits within the publishing ecosystem. Cultivate self-confidence and practical outreach skills by preparing and presenting an effective \u201celevator\u201d pitch of a novel.", "credits": "3"}, "MFA701": {"title": "Thesis Writing II", "description": "Continue writing a publication-ready novel following a detailed writing plan toward the completion of a full draft. Work to hone creative craft and critical abilities using constructive workshopping, engaging with peers in productive feedback processes. Develop practical strategies for improving work through revision.", "credits": "3"}, "MFA702": {"title": "Thesis Writing III (Capstone)", "description": "Revise, finalize, and submit a publication-ready novel for the capstone in the MFA program. Assemble a professional portfolio including a query letter and synopsis, accumulated evidence of writing work, and a personally branded website. Reflect critically on one\u2019s place within a writing genre, examine influential books and writers, and envision a career in writing in the context of literary citizenship.", "credits": "3"}}, "Game Design & Development": {"GAM207": {"title": "Information Technology and Digital Games", "description": "Introduction to digital games and information technology covers game genres and platforms, interface design, game implementation, artificial intelligence, business economics of the game industry, game marketing and design, e-collaboration, and e-commerce. Students learn how to use software packages to design and implement digital games and how to use the Internet to market and distribute digital games. The course includes a project which will culminate in the conception, design, and prototype of an original digital game. The course is designed for students who have an interest in IT and games, including original game concepts, design and implementation, and executive leadership in the game industry. Knowledge of computer programming is not required.", "credits": "3"}, "GAM211": {"title": "Interactive Animation", "description": "This course focuses on programming capabilities to enhance graphic animations and user interfaces to provide spectacular interactive results. Those benefiting from this course include students in game development, advertising, marketing, education, web development, art and other fields that can benefit from interactive animated graphics helping to convey concepts. The course is intended for those with no programming experience as well as those with some programming background. The use and creation of animations will be covered at a level of interest to both those new as well as experienced. The results can be displayed by a browser from the internet or as standalone results displayable on a range of operating systems. This is a hands on computer based course in which the students create a number of individual projects based on their interests and capabilities, focusing on creativity and programming aspects of interactive animation. The course utilizes emerging technologies in interactive animation.", "credits": "3"}, "GAM303": {"title": "Design of Virtual Game Environments", "description": "This core topic addresses the fundamental ideas behind the design of electronic games as virtual environments.  It touches on relevant formal fields such as systems theory, cybernetics, and game theory.  Included are basics of interactive design, including interface design, information design and human-computer interaction.  Emphasis is placed on how virtual game environments function to create experiences, including rule design, play mechanics, game balancing, social game interaction and the integration of visual, audio, tactile and textual elements into the total virtual game environment experience.  Game documentation and play-testing are also covered.", "credits": "3"}, "GAM305": {"title": "Digital Game Development", "description": "To provide a technically well-founded introduction to game development using programming languages and various gaming editors. On completing this course, the student will have acquired a fundamental understanding of the Windows API, the use of sprites, animation and audio in an integrated game environment. This course is cross-listed with IT 305.", "credits": "3"}, "GAM312": {"title": "Scripting for Games", "description": "This course is going to be covering scripting fundamentals as well as how to script in a game engine. Students will learn how to create basic script files and get an understanding for variables, functions, events, loops, conditional statements, and classes. This course will also cover scripting solutions in multiple game engines.", "credits": "3"}, "GAM380": {"title": "Game Experiential Learning", "description": "Learn how to mix direct practice, discussion and self-reflection, and gain experience in the game development environment using the latest tools and technology.  Develop real world skills through this experiential learning coursework to be better prepared for the competitive job market.  May be taken two times for credit for each time.   ", "credits": "3"}, "GAM415": {"title": "Graphics Game Engine", "description": "Students get an introduction to advanced graphics topics including skeletal animation, ray tracing, particle integration, lighting, shaders and materials. Projects are introduced to implement these important visual effects. The knowledge obtained will be assimilated and applied to a wide range of usages and application. Linear Algebra algorithms will be refreshed and/or introduced specific to the topic at hand. Students will learn the basics of Direct X, Open GL, and Rendering solutions (forward and deferred). ", "credits": "3"}, "GAM465": {"title": "Digital Multimedia Development", "description": "This course presents digital multimedia theory and develops skills that meet the design and technical requirements of professionally created multimedia for World Wide Web commercial applications on a variety of platforms and Internet applications. Each student develops a professional portfolio consisting of CD-ROM material.  Students also develop working Web sites that display their multimedia projects.  Topics include sound, animation, video, interactivity and multimedia distribution.", "credits": "3"}, "GAM495": {"title": "Game Programming Capstone", "description": "This course integrates previous coursework and practical experience with a focus on authentic demonstration of competencies outlined by the program. Rather than introducing new concepts, students will synthesize and integrate prior learning to develop a capstone project. The course will be structured around this critical task so that students have the appropriate support and resources required to be successful.", "credits": "3"}}, "Geography": {"GEO200": {"title": "World Geography", "description": "This course examines the implications of global location and topography for the people of planet Earth.  Students will explore how geography shapes the dynamics of human societies, with an emphasis on the geoenvironmental, geopolitical, and geosocial phenomena that help to define the modern world.", "credits": "3"}, "GEO330": {"title": "Geohazards", "description": "This course will explore disasters due to natural phenomena such as climate change, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, tsunami, volcanic eruptions, asteroid/comet impacts, and mass extinctions.  Each type of event will be considered in terms of its origin, evolution, warning potential, range of significant environmental impacts and possible mitigation strategies, as well as key historical cases of these geohazards. ", "credits": "3"}, "GEO345": {"title": "Remote Sensing and Imagery Analysis", "description": "This course will provide an overview of the technology by which aircraft and satellite images of the Earth are produced as well as hands on experience manipulating and interpreting remote sensing data. Students will gain practical experience in environmental analysis using satellite imagery and commonly used sensors and analytical methods for the Earth sciences.", "credits": "3"}, "GEO450": {"title": "Spatial Analysis", "description": "This course will investigate geospatial statistical analyses that aim to provide students with the background necessary to investigate geographically represented data. The specific focus will be on spatial data analysis, such as the analysis of autocorrelation, principles of geostatistics and analysis methods that are relevant in the fields of public health, environmental/earth science and social science. The focus of this course will be to gain hands-on experience in applying these techniques with Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and spatial analytical software, and essential methodological and practical issues that are involved in sophisticated spatial analyses.", "credits": "3"}}, "Graduate Business Administration": {"MBA501": {"title": "Mathematics and Statistics for Business", "description": "This is an applied course, which will provide students with the mathematical knowledge and skills that underlie many courses offered in the school of business. Students will learn the fundamental concepts and methods of linear algebra, mathematical functions, differential calculus and statistics and their applications to business. They will also sharpen their quantitative, analytical and problem-solving skills that are so important for success in the world of business today.", "credits": "3"}, "MBA502": {"title": "Economics for Business", "description": "This course is intended to provide the student with a concisely focused yet rigorous introduction to both micro- and macroeconomic theory needed at the foundational level of a graduate degree program. Some of the topics to be addressed include: market behavior; demand theory and related elasticity concepts; production and cost theory; managerial decision-making in perfectly competitive and imperfectly competitive markets; GDP determination; unemployment and inflation; and fiscal and monetary policy.", "credits": "3"}, "MBA503": {"title": "Financial Reporting and Analysis", "description": "This course emphasizes the creation and interpretation of financial statements critical to an understanding of today's economy.  Various financial topics related to financial statements are covered.   Income statements, balance sheets, and cash flow statements are explored in-depth giving students an appreciation of how these statements are prepared and the standard accounting rules that apply to their creation.  ", "credits": "3"}, "MBA515": {"title": "Business Environment, Innovations and Entrepreneurship", "description": "This course focuses on the basics of business by introducing students to business environments in which they focus on the big picture, identify internal and external opportunities for growth, and manage resources. The course will also present students with management techniques to help them stay current and apply creative solutions to problems. Students will be introduced to the programmatic themes of globalization, leadership, team work, and ethics.", "credits": "3"}, "MBA520": {"title": "Accounting and Financial Analysis", "description": "Finance is the language of business, and in this course students will take their understanding of finance to the next level by using analytical skills when dealing with financial reporting. Students will apply financial and analytical skills gained in prior coursework, as well as principles of corporate finance, to business decision making. The course covers financial statements and other reports, the basics of financial forecasting and budgeting, and the communications and vocabulary related to financial statements.", "credits": "3"}, "MBA550": {"title": "Leading in an Organization", "description": "The course focuses on personnel management at all levels: individual, team, and internal and external networks. With an emphasis on interpersonal skills, as well as strength-finders, students will learn essential concepts in conflict management, negotiations, and development of creative culture. Students will also learn how to establish productive relationships, motivate people, align teams and individuals to a vision, and drive change.", "credits": "3"}, "MBA560": {"title": "Marketing and Strategy", "description": "The course will focus on brand management and how marketing should be approached as a partner in strategic decision making, both internally and externally. Students will study strategic positioning, market opportunities, pricing strategies, market analysis, as well as product differentiation. SWOT analysis and the marketing mix will be covered in a decision making focus, together with the programmatic themes of globalization, leadership, team work and ethics.", "credits": "3"}, "MBA610": {"title": "Business Law", "description": "This course provides a survey of the legal environment of business by looking at legal issues and regulations in a business context. The students assess the impact of business law on organizational decision making for informing strategic legal decisions. The course covers employment law, contracts, tort and product liability, internet law as well as other legal issues affecting the business environment. The students also assess the legal and ethical implications of US companies doing business abroad.", "credits": "3"}, "MBA635": {"title": "Ethics, Corporate Culture, and Social Responsibility", "description": "This course examines corporate culture and social responsibility, how to build a sustainable business, and how to promote corporate ethics and values. The course also looks at how to deal with group think, diversity and cultural awareness, civic engagement, and how to be at the forefront of using environmental and sustainable practices that have a positive global impact. The course will also examine personal ethics in relationship to corporate ethics, governance, and civic mindedness.", "credits": "3"}, "MBA640": {"title": "Finance, Economics, and Decision Making", "description": "The course is a continuation of MBA 520 Accounting and Financial Analysis and focuses on effective business decisions using quantitative and qualitative data, microeconomic and macroeconomic variables, and internal financial priorities. The students refine operational and investment decision-making skills with respect to organizational sustainability and growth, mergers, debt vs. equity funding and capital markets. In addition, students are exposed to foreign currencies, foreign direct investment (FDI), and international trade.", "credits": "3"}, "MBA665": {"title": "Government Impact on Business", "description": "This course focuses on the macroeconomic aspect of business, including governmental impact (local, national, international), by exploring public policy, regulatory bodies, regulations' impact on business, trends and current politics and their impact on business, power structures, and lobbying.", "credits": "3"}, "MBA690": {"title": "Operations Management and Technology", "description": "This course explores essential aspects of project management, the tracking and measurement of key performance indicators (KPI), and the use of current technology to create automation and sustainability. Students have the opportunity to examine technology management and operations management from a strategic perspective, creating a common view into the different layers of a business. In addition, students learn to collect, identify, and determine quality measures and use common methodologies and strategic planning processes.", "credits": "3"}, "MBA700": {"title": "Strategic Management", "description": "This course includes the application of learned skills and the testing, distillation and integration of insights gained from previous courses and other sources.", "credits": "3"}, "MBA705": {"title": "MBA Capstone", "description": "This capstone course is the culminating experience for the MBA program. The aim of the capstone is to assess students\u2019 ability to synthesize and integrate the knowledge and skills they have developed throughout their coursework, rather than introducing new concepts. This course is structured to support student success in fulfilling program requirements.", "credits": "3"}, "MBA710": {"title": "Internship", "description": "Internships are available for full-time students to enhance their educational experiences through appropriate, work-oriented activities in selected environments.", "credits": "3 - 12"}, "MBA740": {"title": "Thesis Option", "description": "Students may substitute 6 hours of thesis credit for two elective courses in the M.B.A., master of finance, master of information technology or master of business education programs. A thesis must be completed within nine months of its approval.", "credits": "6"}}, "Graphics": {"GRA100": {"title": "Introduction to Graphic Design Technology", "description": "This course serves as groundwork for the basic operations and functionality of industry-standard graphic design software and the potential for artistic expression through this medium. Through a series of hands-on exercises, students will become proficient in the operating functions, work processes, and basic tools available in graphics and photo editing, digital illustration, and desktop publishing programs. The course prioritizes experimentation with these tools, allowing students to enhance their visual creative thinking, problem-solving skills, and design methodology.", "credits": "3"}, "GRA101": {"title": "Basic Design and Color Theory", "description": "This course examines the basic elements and principles of design, including balance, emphasis, proportion and rhythm. Students are introduced to visual designing systems that guide the student through the application of computer graphics tools. The basic visual design elements of line, space, texture and color are creatively explored as students complete a series of projects that relate to advertising layout and design and visual merchandising.", "credits": "3"}, "GRA201": {"title": "Intro to Digital Sculpting", "description": "In this course students will be introduced into Digital sculpting with zbrush. Also understand how digital sculpting fits into a pipeline in a game production environment. Techniques covered in this course will be software navigation, sculpting with multiple brushes, masking, poly painting, and materials. The course will cover some practices used to prep a model for the next stage in creating a game model. Some techniques will show how zbrush can work seamlessly with other 3D modeling software. The class will also have assignments that include observational and concept drawing.", "credits": "3"}, "GRA202": {"title": "3-D Modeling and Animation", "description": "In this course students will be introduced to 3DS max. It will give them an overview of what max does specifically for games. This course will be focused on modeling. Students will learn the basics of modeling low poly and high poly models. How they are unwrapped and used in conjunction with textures. It will also show a wide range of techniques used in the industry for modeling for mobile, PC and current generation consoles.", "credits": "3"}, "GRA211": {"title": "Interactive Animation", "description": "This course focuses on programming capabilities to enhance graphic animations and user interfaces to provide spectacular interactive results. Those benefiting from this course include students in game development, advertising, marketing, education, web development, art and other fields that can benefit from interactive animated graphics helping to convey concepts. The course is intended for those with no programming experience as well as those with some programming background. The use and creation of animations will be covered at a level of interest to both those new as well as experienced. The results can be displayed by a browser from the internet or as standalone results displayable on a range of operating systems. This is a hands on computer based course in which the students create a number of individual projects based on their interests and capabilities, focusing on creativity and programming aspects of interactive animation. The course utilizes emerging technologies in interactive animation.", "credits": "3"}, "GRA212": {"title": "3-D Character Animation", "description": "This course will introduce students to character animation by learning the 12 principles of animation.  We will also be going over the pipeline for skinning and rigging a character.", "credits": "3"}, "GRA220": {"title": "Introduction to Digital Imaging", "description": "Using Photoshop and Illustrator software, this course is a Mac-based introduction to professional computer graphics creation and to the software and hardware typically used in the graphic design, video, photography and interactive Web/multimedia industries.  Emphasis will be placed on the professional use of image- capturing devices, such as scanners, digital still cameras and video cameras.  Image editing and color management systems will be discussed and demonstrated.  The important differences between vector and bitmap graphics will be defined, as will the significant differences in preparing images for print, broadcast and Web distribution.  Students will be encouraged to experiment with their own and preexisting images using sophisticated digital editing techniques such as layering, channel masking, filtering, cloning and montaging. Students will output their work from inkjet printers and record it on CD, video and film. Special attention will be paid to copyright awareness in the age of digital image.", "credits": "3"}, "GRA310": {"title": "Digital Graphic Design for the Web", "description": "This course focuses on digital graphic design theory and its application to web design. Students learn about the technical requirements of professionally created digital web documents. Students will be focused on designing communication and marketing applications for the World Wide Web all the while considering user experience and functionality. Differences in designing for the desktop computer and mobile internet appliances will be a topic for discussion and incorporated in hands-on exercises and projects. Each student will develop several minisites and by the end of the semester will have produced at least one deployable site. Topics include design strategies, web authoring/editing environments, color calibration and aesthetics, web typography, style sheets, template use, graphics format selecting and optimization, and HTML coding and debugging.", "credits": "3"}, "GRA311": {"title": "Environment Design", "description": "In the first half of this course students will be introduced to a pipeline for the creation of environments inside of a game studio. Students will be shown how to use reference drawings and images to help build props and environment pieces. Students will also be shown how these assets can be used, not only as standalone assets but to create other bigger picture assets when used as a modular set piece. Then the students will digitally sculpt environment assets from references provided to them. When the sculpting phase is finished the students will learn how to build a game model from their digital sculpt. Students will then create the textures that will be used for a final render. In the second half of this course students will be able to go through this same pipeline but instead of using provided artwork, they will create something from their own imagination.", "credits": "3"}, "GRA332": {"title": "Digital Publishing", "description": "In this course, students will be introduced to the creative and practical aspects of digital publishing using Adobe's Digital Publishing Suite, used extensively in the creation of multimedia publications for the iPad. Students will identify and explore differences between designing for the iPad, smartphone, tablet, laptop and desktop computers. This course shows students how to step outside of print design and learn about interactive design, and the differences and similarities between the two. Through targeted assignments students will develop an understanding of the variety of tools used to create publications for electronic media. Students will capture key insights to improve content and deepen reader engagement. ", "credits": "3"}, "GRA340": {"title": "Typography", "description": "Typography deals with the language of type, the history of typography, typeface and character recognition, legibility, appropriate uses of measure, manuscript specifications and the individual visual dynamics of letterforms. In this class students will learn how to work with type as a stand-alone design element.  Students will also learn how to incorporate type successfully with imagery.  The assignments will cover a broad range of type applications.  Students will primarily focus their efforts towards developing a greater understanding of typographic form through exercises based on the setting of words, phrases, sentences and short paragraphs.  Students will first focus on the appropriate setting of spaces in-between the letters that make up words and projects will gradually increase in scope and complexity up to the setting of pages of text with multiple levels of hierarchical meaning.", "credits": "3"}, "GRA401": {"title": "Character Design", "description": "This course will involve a combination of concept, texturing, digital sculpting and 3d modeling to create characters that would appear on both mobile and current generation consoles. Students will learn a proven pipeline used in the gaming industry to bring a concept to creation and ready for game implementation. The course will begin showing students how this pipeline works in combination of different types of software following a given concept. They will have the understanding of how specific software works along the path of the pipeline to create a character. Students will then be asked to create their own concept following the techniques used in class to present a finished game character for their final project.", "credits": "3"}, "GRA402": {"title": "Creature Design", "description": "In this course students will be shown how creatures are created from an idea to a fully fleshed out game model. They will work through weekly assignments to see the connection of real world animals and fantasy creatures. Students will follow step by step instruction with supplied concepts to build a fantasy creature through real world animal anatomy and the creative process. In the second half of this course students will learn how to go through this same process of using reference of actual creatures/animals from the real world as a spring board to create their own fantasy creature.", "credits": "3"}, "GRA410": {"title": "Advanced Digital Graphic Design for Web", "description": "This course engages upper-level design students in current industry standards used in designing content for multimedia and interactive communication. Emphasis is placed on designing for computers, tablets and phones. The course is divided into teaching modules emphasizing the integration of several software packages for design problem solving. Emphasis is placed on conceptualization and the mastery of professional site mapping and wire framing techniques. Exercises and projects provide challenging design problem-solving experience. Project themes involve self-promotion and client-based work. All projects rely on the student's ability to integrate previously mastered techniques in a broad range of software.", "credits": "3"}, "GRA420": {"title": "Advanced Digital Imaging", "description": "This hands\u2010on computer graphics course combines skills from previous design courses to explore the history, process and essential skills required to develop successful brand identity systems. Topics such as logo design, selection of fonts and colors, and the development of branded marketing materials are covered in depth. In addition, the important techniques of imaging software integration and file format compatibilities are discussed and applied while preparing images for print, video and Web. At the conclusion of this course, students will have developed a complete branded identity system and assembled a portfolio presentation for public viewing.", "credits": "3"}, "GRA431": {"title": "Interactive Animation for the Web", "description": "This class focuses on the design principles of dynamic web page animation to create rich, interactive web content. Students explore the design of characters, animated graphics, light programming, and navigational elements in animated content. Using design software, students develop interactive animations, learn the tricks of controlling file size, integrate special approaches for importing and creating animation, and develop skills in many other production techniques needed for building complete web animation projects.", "credits": "3"}, "GRA432": {"title": "Advanced Desktop Publishing", "description": "This class focuses on the design principles of dynamic web page animation to create rich, interactive web content. Students explore the design of characters, animated graphics, light programming, and navigational elements in animated content. Using design software, students develop interactive animations, learn the tricks of controlling file size, integrate special approaches for importing and creating animation, and develop skills in many other production techniques needed for building complete web animation projects.", "credits": "3"}, "GRA440": {"title": "3-D Art and Design", "description": "In this course students will explore how their individual creative strengths and digital skill sets fit into a professional work flow of commercial game production. Students will choose one or multiple aspects of game art creation: Character design, Environment design, or Animation. All creative work produced in this course will be executed in the context of strict deadlines that simulate industry expectation. Students will concentrate on game development source control and integration of art assets into a production pipeline. Each student develops a digital portfolio and website that showcase their ability to create professional creative art work. Students will learn the process of objective self-evaluation and peer criticism and preparing their portfolios to match professional job board postings.", "credits": "3"}, "GRA451": {"title": "Advanced Multiplatform Design", "description": "Develop practical application and techniques of visual design necessary for multiple web platforms including mobile, smartphone, and desktop. Topics covered include effective user interface design principles and navigation for various platforms, the development process for responsive design, and technical components that are platform-independent.", "credits": "3"}, "GRA470": {"title": "User Interface and Experience", "description": "This course provides a culminating experience in web design by focusing on advanced concepts in user interface design and user-centered design. Students integrate multiple interactive and rich media techniques to develop user experiences reflecting new and innovative developments in web design. The course covers principles of usability and usability testing, case studies, advanced prototyping tools and techniques, and the concepts and techniques behind several methods of user interface design.", "credits": "3"}, "GRA491": {"title": "Graphic Design Portfolio", "description": "The graphic design portfolio course will provide students with a comprehensive development opportunity to showcase their professional design work, establish a branded identity as a working professional, and engage in peer and professional critiques of design work in preparation for formal employment and contract interviews. Students will create both digital and print portfolios that demonstrate their competencies in the graphic design and media arts program outcomes.", "credits": "3"}, "GRA492": {"title": "Game Art and Development Capstone", "description": "This capstone course is the culminating experience for the B.A. in Game Art and Development program. The aim of the capstone is to assess students' ability to synthesize and integrate the knowledge and skills they have developed throughout their coursework, rather than introducing new concepts. This course is structured to support student success in fulfilling program requirements.", "credits": "3"}}, "Health Information Management": {"HIM200": {"title": "Introduction to Health Information Technology", "description": "This course describes the use of information technology and the role of HIT professionals in the development of the electronic health record. It introduces the health information infrastructure and systems along with healthcare informatics, including applications, technology, privacy, and security.", "credits": "3"}, "HIM215": {"title": "Coding & Classification Systems", "description": "The purpose of this course is to provide students with the basic ability to identify nomenclatures and classification systems as well as assign codes using the appropriate principles, guidelines, and conventions and apply ICD-10-CM and ICD conventions' rules and guidelines.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Healthcare Information Management"}, "HIM220": {"title": "Healthcare Data Management", "description": "This course examines the design and the use of medical databases. Students will learn how to implement business rules and data modeling to develop medical information management systems. The course further explores database applications for decision support including evidence-based practice, alerts, allergy management, and identification of gaps in care. Students will design databases and systems that reflect privacy and security requirements of HIPAA and HITECH Act.", "credits": "3"}, "HIM350": {"title": "Communication and Technologies", "description": "The Communication and Technologies course will review and evaluate an assortment of technologies including: data, information, and file structures (data administration, data definitions, data dictionary, data modeling, data structures, data warehousing, database management systems), system interoperability, data sharing, Health Information Exchanges (HIE), and the Nation-wide Health Information Infrastructure (NHIN).", "credits": "3"}, "HIM360": {"title": "Coding and Classifications Systems II", "description": "In this course, students will learn to manage health data elements, data sets (i.e., HEDIS, UHDDS, OASIS), and databases as well as perform a data quality assessment and integrity review. Health information archival and retrieval systems, as well as data capture tools and technologies (i.e., forms, data input screens, templates, other health record documentation tools), will be analyzed. Students will review healthcare taxonomies, clinical vocabularies nomenclatures (e.g., ICD\u20109\u2010CM, ICD\u201010\u2010CM/PCS, CPT, SNOMED, DSMIV). Topics will include severity of illness systems, data integrity, coding audits, CCI, electronic billing, patient identity management policies, and X12N. Additionally, the course will review charge master management, revenue cycles, and audit processes (e.g., compliance and reimbursement).", "credits": "3"}, "HIM400": {"title": "Communication and Technologies II", "description": "This course builds upon knowledge gained in HIM-350, including an evaluation of project management fundamentals, database structures, data extraction methods, data mining, data analysis, system acquisition, data sharing and regulatory forces that impact health information technologies.", "credits": "3"}, "HIM422": {"title": "Ethical and Legal Considerations in Health Information Management", "description": "Students in this course will examine ethics and the fundamentals of law as they pertain to health information management professionals. Students will practice developing organization-wide ethical guidelines, policies, and procedures which comply with current healthcare law and best practices. Students will learn about the U.S. legal system, civil procedure, evidence, and tort law. Students will analyze the legal health record (maintenance, content, documentation, & disposition). Students will review corporations, contracts, business associate agreements, anti-trust legal issues, medical staff, and work place law. Other areas covered include: consent to treat, HIPAA privacy rule, HIPAA security rule, security threats and controls, risk management, access, use, & disclosure/release of health information, corporate compliance, required reporting, and mandatory disclosure laws.", "credits": "3"}, "HIM425": {"title": "Healthcare IT Infrastructure and Network Management", "description": "In this course, students learn about the primary infrastructure components of the modern healthcare information systems including hardware, software, and storage systems relevant to maintaining the healthcare network. Students will learn about planning, maintaining and auditing data communications and networks in an organization. Students engage in assignments focused on long and short-term planning, operations, maintenance and forecasting.", "credits": "3"}, "HIM440": {"title": "Management of Health Information Services", "description": "Evaluate information management planning, strategic planning, process re-engineering and work redesign, change management, and accreditation survey readiness.", "credits": "3"}, "HIM445": {"title": "Professional Practical Experience", "description": "The Professional Practical Experience course provides hands-on experiences for the Bachelor of Science students in Health Information Management.  Students choose either a traditional on-site internship with a preceptor or a hybrid internship which includes working with a preceptor on an off-site project and participating in an online simulation.  The Professional Practice Experience (PPE) is designed to provide students with a directed preceptor experience, which is supervised and evaluated at professional practice site(s).  The PPE provides students with the opportunity to refine developed competencies and skills sets that were introduced in the Health Information Management courses.  This course is only available for Professional Practice candidates.", "credits": "3"}, "HIM480": {"title": "Health Information Management Capstone", "description": "The capstone course is the culminating experience for the Bachelor of Science in Health Information Management or the Bachelor of Science in Health Information Management - Professional Practice Concentration.  This course builds on the concepts of all courses students have taken within the program of study. The capstone course provides students with the opportunity to integrate and synthesize the knowledge and skills acquired throughout their course work in an original comprehensive project, and to assess their level of mastery of the stated outcomes of their degree program in Bachelor of Science in Health Information Management or the Bachelor of Science in Health Information Management - Professional Practice Concentration.", "credits": "3"}, "HIM500": {"title": "Healthcare Informatics", "description": "Students will learn the history and current state of healthcare and how the industry uses information systems. Throughout the course students will discuss types of information systems, such as the electronic medical record (EMR), laboratory and radiology systems and more. Students will also study trends in new practices, such as telemedicine and home healthcare, and how they function in various healthcare settings. Finally, students will explore how these and other industry trends, with the use of technology, can improve patient care.", "credits": "3"}, "HIM510": {"title": "HIM Applications and Systems", "description": "Topics related to health information management, including revenue management, coding and compliance, developing professional identity, terminology and classification systems, Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), and current trends are explored. Students tour a medical facility either virtually or in person.", "credits": "3"}, "HIM520": {"title": "Leading as a HIM Professional", "description": "This course explores leadership roles, change management, and key topics in the health information management industry through an overview of leadership in organizations, human resource (HR) management, training and development, ethics, process improvements, work design, and developing and revising policies. Students examine ethical concepts and learn first-hand what the role of a health information management professional entails.", "credits": "3"}, "HIM530": {"title": "Information Protection & Security in HIM", "description": "Building on the HIPAA foundation established in HIM-510, students learn how to create and revise working policies and regulations within organizations based on existing laws, and how to adapt infrastructures to support these policy changes. Students explore access of medical records and how to discern when access should be prohibited based on the policies in place.", "credits": "3"}, "HIM540": {"title": "Health Information Governance", "description": "Explore compliance for HIM professionals, regulatory requirements, and the relationship of coding and compliance, to develop an understanding of data governance pertaining to the significance of data integration, interoperability, and shared data. Learn how to assess the accuracy and standardization of data governance by reviewing various sections within the charts and their authorizations.", "credits": "3"}, "HIM550": {"title": "Data Management and Data Quality", "description": "Explore meaningful use of data and the management of patient-centered health information systems. Review data management policies, evaluate data from varying sources to create meaningful presentations/reports, design patient-centered health information systems, and manage virtual network communications. Learn how to collect data, evaluate it, and turn it into valuable information to present to various audiences.", "credits": "3"}, "HIM560": {"title": "HIM Informatics and Technology Infrastructure", "description": "Explore the technologies that support health information systems by examining different patient medical records and the various uses and steps in developing medical records. Create models of portals from a database-perspective.", "credits": "3"}, "HIM600": {"title": "Managing Compliance", "description": "Review the laws and regulations that are applicable to health information management professionals in regards to compliance, medical documentation, fraud, abuse, and penalties for documentation and coding violations based on governmental guidelines. Learn principles of medical auditing, medical record auditing skills, chart abstraction and perform a coding risk analysis.", "credits": "3"}, "HIM660": {"title": "HIM Strategic Planning and Financial Management", "description": "Explore the healthcare revenue cycle and financial principles relevant to strategic planning for the healthcare organization, including analytics, reimbursement models, forecasting the revenue cycle and methods of fraud detection.", "credits": "3"}, "HIM675": {"title": "Research Methods and Evaluation", "description": "Employ research methodologies, systematic processes for data collection to ensure data integrity, and data analysis to establish a framework for drafting the capstone project.", "credits": "3"}, "HIM680": {"title": "Advanced Topics in HIM I", "description": "Apply and expand on topics covered in previous courses in the MS Health Information Management program, including advanced classification systems, data governance, data management, and health information technologies such as data analytics and decision support. Apply theories learned in consumer informatics, and information integrity, contingency planning, as well as vendor management and enterprise information management.", "credits": "3"}, "HIM685": {"title": "Advanced Topics in HIM II", "description": "Apply and expand on topics covered in previous courses in the MS Health Information Management program, including strategic planning, and leadership roles in HIM. Apply theories learned in change management, work design, and project management.", "credits": "3"}, "HIM690": {"title": "Health Information Management Capstone", "description": "Integrate previous coursework and practical experience with a focus on authentic demonstration of competencies outlined by the program by synthesizing and integrating prior learning to design, develop, and execute a capstone project as a culmination of the M.S. Health Information Management program. Develop a well-thought-out, comprehensive project that applies knowledge in a complex and operationally-charged business environment.", "credits": "3"}}, "Healthcare Management": {"HCM205": {"title": "Medical Terminology", "description": "Explore effective and professional communication in a variety of healthcare settings. Learn the rules for building and defining medical terms, the correct pronunciation and spelling of medical terms, and the application of medical terminology as it relates to each body system. Evaluate various types of medical records and reports, and learn the skills needed to read and interpret them. Apply the application of medical terminology as it relates to the clinical world through various activities.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Healthcare Terminology and Documentation"}, "HCM320": {"title": "Healthcare Economics", "description": "Learn about the standard economic principles and tools that healthcare administrators need to utilize for effective decision making within the healthcare industry. Explores a framework for understanding government policies, legislation, pricing, profitability, market supply and demand, and risk issues within the healthcare economic system.", "credits": "3"}, "HCM325": {"title": "Healthcare Marketing", "description": "This course explores key marketing concepts that the healthcare leader needs to understand to plan and implement an effective marketing strategy. The concepts explored include the marketing process, needs assessment, developing marketing campaigns and evaluating efficacy of marketing efforts.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Healthcare Marketing and Economics"}, "HCM340": {"title": "Healthcare Delivery Systems", "description": "This course provides an overview of the nature, organization, and function of the continuum of health services found in the United States. Emphasis is placed on the interrelation of cultural, economic, political and social aspects of health care delivery at the federal, state and local level. Topics include health care costs, accessibility of services, governmental influence on health care delivery, private industry role in health care, services for the medically indigent and elderly, ethical issues regarding transplants, reproductive technology, end of life decisions and funding.", "credits": "3"}, "HCM345": {"title": "Healthcare Reimbursement", "description": "This course explores some of the major issues facing the healthcare industry and the effect that public policy and business environment has on a healthcare organization.  Emphasis is on supply and demand theory, reimbursement systems, managed care, charge-master management, Case-mix management, DRG prospective payment, insurance, Medicare, Medicaid, governmental regulations, accessibility, eligibility, budgeting, and planning.  Students learn to use informational and research tools to make effective management decisions.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Healthcare Reimbursement"}, "HCM400": {"title": "Healthcare Finance", "description": "This course provides an overview of the two main areas of Healthcare Finance, accounting and financial management. Topics explore include the healthcare financial environment, financial accounting principles, managerial accounting principles, financial management, long-term financing and capital investments.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Healthcare Finance"}, "HCM415": {"title": "Healthcare Strategic Management and Policy", "description": "This course examines the complex and intricate nature of the U.S. healthcare system and its implication for healthcare organizations and the populations served. Topics include the organization of healthcare, access to care and disparities, quality of care, funding, healthcare reform and impact for strategic planning for healthcare organizations.", "credits": "3"}, "HCM440": {"title": "Healthcare Research and Evaluation Methodologies", "description": "Students in this course will develop the knowledge and skills to apply assessment instruments, data collection, research designs, and statistical analysis for needs assessment and program planning. Additionally students will explore contextual issues surrounding evaluation, evaluation designs and methodological issues pertinent to programmatic evaluation.", "credits": "3"}, "HCM490": {"title": "Healthcare Administration Capstone", "description": "The capstone course is the culminating experience for the Bachelor of Science in Healthcare Administration. The capstone course provides students with the opportunity to integrate and synthesize the knowledge, skills and attitudes acquired throughout their course work in an original comprehensive project, and to assess their level of mastery of the stated program outcomes of their degree program in Healthcare Administration.", "credits": "3"}, "HCM491": {"title": "Health Sciences Capstone", "description": "The capstone course is the culminating experience for the Bachelor of Science in Health Sciences. The capstone course provides students with the opportunity to integrate and synthesize the knowledge, skills and attitudes acquired throughout their course work and apply them in a comprehensive project within their clinical specialty, and to assess their level of mastery of the stated program outcomes of their degree program in Health Sciences.", "credits": "3"}, "HCM615": {"title": "Healthcare Reimbursement Systems and Finance", "description": "Explore financial management and healthcare reimbursement systems in the United States. Students focus on the practical application of financial concepts and skills in healthcare settings including third\u2010party payers, Medicare/Medicaid payments, managing working capital, resource allocation, and the impact of health reform.", "credits": "3"}, "HCM620": {"title": "Healthcare Information Management", "description": "This course provides students with a comprehensive overview of the management and technical issues surrounding healthcare information systems today. Information systems are complex and increasingly instrumental in supporting quality patient care and in pursuing cost-saving efficiencies in healthcare settings. The course explores how healthcare information technology is transforming the healthcare delivery system. Significant topics in this field include: patient-centered technologies, privacy laws, electronic medical records, measuring outcomes, and evidence-based practice.", "credits": "3"}, "HCM630": {"title": "Healthcare Quality", "description": "Healthcare quality is one of the important drivers of reform in the U.S. healthcare system. This course introduces students to the foundational principles and techniques of quality management. The course explains the central components and importance of quality, and the tools and techniques to continuously measure, assess, improve and transform the healthcare system. Key topics in quality management include: regulatory mandates and accreditation standards, performance measurement and improvement, methods for redesign of healthcare processes, patient safety and strategies to reduce healthcare errors, and the role of information management systems and technology in healthcare.", "credits": "3"}, "HCM700": {"title": "Healthcare Administration Capstone", "description": "This capstone course will integrate previous coursework and practical experience with a focus on authentic demonstration of competencies outlined by the program. Rather than introducing new concepts, students will synthesize and integrate prior learning to design, develop, and execute a capstone as a culmination of their studies. The course will be structured to support student success in fulfilling program requirements and developing a well-thought-out, comprehensive project.", "credits": "3"}}, "Higher Education Administration": {"HEA510": {"title": "Philosophy and History of Higher Education", "description": "Candidates seeking to become degreed higher education administrators must first understand the historical, philosophical, and social influences that have built America's concept of higher education and articulate their own personal philosophy of higher education. Emphasis will be placed on the reciprocal relationship between higher education models and their socio-historical contexts.", "credits": "3"}, "HEA520": {"title": "Contemporary Issues in Higher Education", "description": "Through the use of contextualized cases representative of the technological, demographic, and intellectual shifts that have influenced higher education's evolving role in the twenty-first century, candidates will examine the issues facing higher education today and link their judgments to historical foundations. Candidates will create alignments between current issues in higher education and how they influence the twenty-first-century student.", "credits": "3"}, "HEA530": {"title": "Data-Driven Decision-Making in Higher Education", "description": "This course will further candidates' ability to methodically apply empirically based, data-centric approaches to inform institutional decision making across multiple university sectors. Through contextualized, authentic experiences, candidates will analyze, evaluate, and assess programs using contemporary technologies and develop evidence-based approaches to meet desired outcomes. Candidates will be required to justify the empirically based process by which they reached their programmatic decisions. Specific modes of inquiry driving this course will be strongly represented in subsequent course work. ", "credits": "3"}, "HEA540": {"title": "Program Evaluation", "description": "This course will explore the theories and processes of higher education program evaluation. Candidates will - within the context of a university\u2019s mission, strategic goals, and objectives - learn necessary skills to methodically evaluate higher education programs. Candidates will analyze given sets of case-based data and offer evidence and research based justifications for programmatic changes. Project management concepts and tools will be applied throughout the course.", "credits": "3"}, "HEA550": {"title": "Higher Education Law and Regulation", "description": "With an examination of the key laws, policies, and concepts specific to higher education in the United States, candidates will gain a sense of higher education law's complexity and how law has assumed a greater role in establishing patterns, modes of conduct, and equitable procedures in an attempt to assure the rights and responsibilities of administrators, faculty members, staff, and students in the institutional context. ", "credits": "3"}, "HEA560": {"title": "Educational Policy Making", "description": "Higher education and its administrators are increasingly influenced by federal and state policies. Candidates will employ current higher education regulations to develop policies that further an institution's mission. Candidates will examine the policy making process by analyzing national industry organizations and research, data sources, and trends that affect existing legislation.", "credits": "3"}, "HEA610": {"title": "Enrollment Management and Marketing", "description": "This course will address the data-centric enrollment management process within higher education, including how to attract, admit, and retain students. Candidates will examine the tools for effective admissions marketing, predicting admissions yields, and assessing how financial aid influences enrollment behavior. Candidates will gain the evidence-based skills necessary to understand the tactics for successful onboarding and continued retention of students, as well as the structures and approaches aimed at improving student achievement and persistence.", "credits": "3"}, "HEA620": {"title": "Budget and Financial Management in Higher Education", "description": "This course will require candidates to empirically make sense of quantitative data sets related to financial management of an institution. Candidates will manipulate tuition and fee revenue models and make justifiable, quantitatively-based budgetary decisions regarding how those decisions map onto given institution's strategic initiatives and mission. Through the use of fiscal management models, candidates will how account for how government appropriations, financial aid regulations, large grants, and investment income influence these decisions. ", "credits": "3"}, "HEA630": {"title": "Leading Change in Higher Education", "description": "This course explores the responsibility of innovative - and accountable - change agents who must manage institutional responses to major external or internal forces. Candidates will consider how to apply empirical data and quality improvement principles to planning.  Candidates will demonstrate how strategic approaches may be applied to successful navigation of individual, collaborative, and organizational structures.  Through the examination of effective communication strategies, consensus building, and negotiation candidates will focus on creative problem solving through innovative approaches and models related to the administration of institutions of higher education in the 21st century.", "credits": "3"}, "HEA640": {"title": "Critical Issues in Student Affairs", "description": "This course explores student development theories and court decisions related to student-institution relationship, privacy, ethics, and civil rights as they relate to critical issues addressed by the department of student affairs. Candidates will develop a program related to student affairs to address an institutions underrepresented need. ", "credits": "3"}, "HEA660": {"title": "Community College Administration", "description": "This course traces the evolution of community colleges in the United States, their organizational structures, and how those structures function to meet the needs of traditional and non-traditional learners. Candidates will examine community college goals, policies, instructional and student service programs, and how community colleges influence the broader context of higher education. Attention will be given to community college learning goals and how administrators obtain and utilize community and financial resources to meet the desired outcomes. ", "credits": "3"}, "HEA690": {"title": "Capstone in Higher Education", "description": "This capstone course is the culminating experience for the M.S. in Higher Education Administration program. The aim of the capstone is to assess students' ability to synthesize and integrate the knowledge and skills they have developed throughout their coursework, rather than introducing new concepts. This course is structured to support student success in fulfilling program requirements.", "credits": "3"}}, "History": {"HIS100": {"title": "Perspectives in History", "description": "More than just dates, names, and places, history is the study of the human condition. It seeks to understand human behavior through the thoughtful examination of different types of historical sources. The study of history is a living subject, always changing as new discoveries and interpretations are presented. This course examines the process of investigating and writing about history through analysis of sources and the presentation of this analysis as an argument. Through this exploration of historical investigation, students will develop a holistic perspective on the contemporary relevance of history and their responsibility to participate and engage in such discourse.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Perspectives on People and Society"}, "HIS113": {"title": "United States History I: 1607-1865", "description": "The first half of the United States history survey courses covers the period from the founding of Jamestown to the end of the Civil War. The development of regionalism and its effect on the coming of the Civil War provides the framework for the investigation. Required for majors in history and social studies education with a concentration in history.", "credits": "3"}, "HIS114": {"title": "United States History II: 1865-Present", "description": "The second half of the United States history survey course covers the period following the Civil War.  The economic, political and ideological developments that allowed the United States to attain a position of the world leadership are closely examined. Required for majors in History and Social Studies Education with a concentration in History.", "credits": "3"}, "HIS117": {"title": "World Civilizations: Prehistory-1500", "description": "An introductory survey of the world's major civilizations from prehistory to 1500. Key societies will be examined from political, socio-economic, and cultural-intellectual perspectives.", "credits": "3"}, "HIS118": {"title": "World Civilizations: 1500 - Present", "description": "An introductory survey of major civilizations from 1500 to the present, with particular emphasis on interactions and conflicts between Western and non-Western parts of the world. Key societies will be examined from political, socio-economic, and cultural-intellectual perspectives.", "credits": "3"}, "HIS200": {"title": "Applied History", "description": "The application of history in our daily lives is not always apparent. However, studying the past is imperative for informing our understanding of society today. Armed with this informed understanding, we are transformed into effective citizens and public agents. In this course, students will explore how history has shaped the role of the citizen in America. Ultimately, historical perspectives will be utilized to understand a topic relevant to American society today.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Research, Analysis, and Cultural Study"}, "HIS220": {"title": "Modern European History: 1890-Present", "description": "This course investigates the trajectory of European hegemony in the 20th century. Special attention is devoted to the effects of the two major conflicts that were fought on European soil.", "credits": "3"}, "HIS222": {"title": "War and Society: Antiquity to 1800", "description": "A survey of warfare during the ancient, medieval, and early modern eras. Particular attention will be devoted to the evolution of military technology and the various ways that Western and non-Western societies adopted gunpowder weaponry.", "credits": "3"}, "HIS223": {"title": "Modern War & Society", "description": "This course will introduce students to the history of warfare in the modern world. It will focus on the modernization of military technique and technology among Western societies, and also on the various that ways non-Western societies encountered this new and evolving way of war- either falling victim to it or importing and emulating it with varying degrees of success.", "credits": "3"}, "HIS235": {"title": "Modern Russia", "description": "This course studies Russian/Soviet history from 1905 to the present with an emphasis on revolutionary traditions, government and politics, culture and religion and social philosophy. ", "credits": "3"}, "HIS240": {"title": "World War I", "description": "The course will begin with an overview of how warfare evolved during the industrial era, not just in terms of technology and tactics, but doctrinally, socially, and economically. It will then examine nineteenth- and early-twentieth-century diplomacy, along with the underlying and immediate causes of World War I. Chronological and topical treatments of the war's conduct will follow. The course will conclude with in-depth discussion of the war's aftermath, focusing on the peace settlements and the formation of new political orders in Europe and elsewhere.", "credits": "3"}, "HIS241": {"title": "World War II", "description": "This course emphasizes the battles, campaigns, events and personalities that dominated World War II.  Special attention is given to political and diplomatic factors during the 1930s which contributed to the outbreak of World War II.", "credits": "3"}, "HIS245": {"title": "United States History since 1945", "description": "An examination of the United States in its rise to global power in the aftermath of World War II. Central to the course are the international and domestic realities of the Cold War, particularly the struggle for equal civil rights within the United States. The course will examine the post-Cold War world as well, examining the transition to the domestic and international challenges of the 21st century.", "credits": "3"}, "HIS270": {"title": "American Environmental History", "description": "The course examines the history of the American environment, paying particular attention to the impact of European settlement on the landscape and the subsequent commodification of resources that defined the American experience in the modern age. it will pay close attention to such phenomena as industrialization, pollution, population trends, urbanization, chemically-dependent food production, and energy consumption, to name only a few. Particularly important, the course will delve into the process of political responses to environmental and ecological challenges as they have evolved over time.", "credits": "3"}, "HIS301": {"title": "World History and Culture", "description": "This course is designed to offer the student a historical and cultural understanding of Africa, India, China and Japan, in their interactions with the western world. Recommended for majors in History and Social Studies Education with a concentration in History.", "credits": "3"}, "HIS311": {"title": "Women, Sexuality, and Islam", "description": "This course examines Islamic legal discourse about women and sexuality, focusing specifically on the historical roots of modern practices and beliefs. Students will focus on the processes of constructing Islamic law to evaluate different arguments related to appropriate sexual practice as well as women's roles, rights, and responsibilities. Through detailed, nuanced exploration of contemporary topics, including veiling, divorce, gay marriage, abortion, contraceptives, female circumcision, sex reassignment surgery, and in vitro fertilization, students will investigate the influence of social, cultural, political, and historical contexts on Islamic interpretations of God's will and appropriate practice.", "credits": "3"}, "HIS314": {"title": "European Conquest of New World", "description": "This course will explore the social and intellectual impact of the discovery of the American continents on the European mind and the consequences of colonization and migration in North America 1500-1800.  Emphasis will be on British colonies and competing European cultures (especially French and Spanish) with Native Americans and African-Americans. Students will focus on three areas: cultural exchange, economic exchange and hostility/conquest. Required for majors in social studies education with concentration in history. Not available every semester.", "credits": "3"}, "HIS319": {"title": "African-American History since the Civil War", "description": "This course traces the changes in labor practices, politics and living conditions of the millions of African-Americans in the South after the Civil War.  Further, the Great Migration, the civil rights movement and the black revolutionary movement will be investigated carefully.", "credits": "3"}, "HIS321": {"title": "The Ancient World of Greece and Rome", "description": "This course will begin by looking at the heritage of Greek civilization and the thinkers who first struggled with the fundamental issues concerning mankind: life, love, suffering, courage, endurance and death.  The course will continue with the immediate inheritors of Greek thought, the Romans. By assessing Roman achievements of empire building and expansion, students will discover a vital civilization that ruled the known world through the force of its armies and the attraction of its culture. The course will end with the development of Christianity and the fall of the Classical World. Required for majors in social studies education with a concentration in history.", "credits": "3"}, "HIS330": {"title": "Civil War and Reconstruction", "description": "This course examines various interpretations of Civil War causation; the major political, economic and military aspects of the war; and the rebuilding of Southern society after the war's end.", "credits": "3"}, "HIS332": {"title": "Colonial New England", "description": "This course investigates the experiences and evolving institutions of the North Atlantic colonists, from the first landings to the making of the Constitution. Special emphasis will be placed upon the colonists' relationship with Native Americans and upon the origins, progress and character of the struggle against Great Britain.", "credits": "3"}, "HIS338": {"title": "Young America", "description": "This course traces the growth of the United States from its beginnings as a fledgling republic to its expansion into a continental empire. Particular attention is given to the development of the first and second American party systems, the democratization of American politics, westward expansion, the market revolution, and the changing roles of women and African-Americans.", "credits": "3"}, "HIS340": {"title": "Making History", "description": "This course is founded upon a fundamental yet complex question; what is history The course investigates this question by examining the various kinds of history; witnessing the myriad ways of communicating historical stories and arguments  ranging from the scholarly monograph to the town square statue to the museum exhibit; and learning how historians of all types actually make history through close, rational analysis of historical sources. In the process students will learn that history is an ever-evolving craft, central to the life of every society.", "credits": "This course is designed for students in a history program."}, "HIS357": {"title": "American Slavery", "description": "This course explores the colonial and national experience of Africans and African-Americans through 1865. Particular attention is given to a general understanding of African history, the trans-Atlantic slave trade, slave life in the Caribbean and the American South, the role of free blacks in both northern and southern colonies and states, antebellum abolitionist and proslavery arguments, and the consequences of emancipation. Also addressed will be the debate over whether Africans/African-Americans were active agents or passive participants in early American history.", "credits": "3"}, "HIS371": {"title": "History of the Middle East I", "description": "This survey course introduces the student to the political and social history of the Middle East from the rise of Islam through World War I.", "credits": "3"}, "HIS372": {"title": "History of the Middle East II", "description": "This survey course introduces the student to the political and social history of the Middle East from World War I until the present.", "credits": "3"}, "HIS373": {"title": "Arab-Israeli Conflict", "description": "This course examines the development of the Arab-Israeli conflict as it emerged in the post-World War II era.", "credits": "3"}, "HIS374": {"title": "The Renaissance and the Reformation", "description": "This course is an examination of some of the major themes of the Renaissance and Reformation in Europe. Through extensive readings in primary sources, the class will explore the major personalities of the period and their influence on changes in many aspects of life. The lectures will focus on a broader context and will raise historical questions concerning such topics as science and belief, voyages of discovery, rise of the nation/state, rise of capitalism, and the millennial view of history.", "credits": "3"}, "HIS460": {"title": "History Research Seminar (Capstone)", "description": "This capstone course requires each student to design and craft his/her own written research project. In close consultation with the instructor, each student will select a topic, discover relevant primary and secondary sources, evaluate and analyze those sources, and develop an argument-based paper as a result of that process.(Class limit: 15 students)", "credits": "3"}, "HIS501": {"title": "Historiography", "description": "This course provides a deep-level exploration into the study of history and historical writing, focusing on the craft and profession of history and its relationship to society. The course contends with the changing nature of historical interpretations and arguments, and the role of historical meta-narratives in shaping one's understanding and experience of history. Students are asked to position and evaluate their own thinking in relation to various historical analyses, defending a preferred approach to a relevant area of interest.", "credits": "3"}, "HIS502": {"title": "Historical Methods", "description": "Historians use a wide variety of methods and approaches to the study, analysis, and evaluation of historical accounts and sources. This course offers students an opportunity to investigate various methodological approaches and the relationships between method, theory, and interpretation in historical research. Students will design an initial research proposal and articulate how a chosen methodology positions them appropriately to address the central issues and problems of their research.", "credits": "3"}, "HIS510": {"title": "Comparative History and Research", "description": "Comparative research is a valuable tool for historians to be able to discover possible historical and social connections across separate historical settings. This course introduces students to best practices, issues, and challenges of comparative history approaches. Central to the course is the development of effective research practices in comparative history: identifying appropriate sources, articulating the context and focus of a research project, and making an informed and supported argument. This course will use the topic of democratic revolutions to model comparative research. ", "credits": "3"}, "HIS520": {"title": "Historical Lenses and Scholarship", "description": "What does it mean to focus on the economic issues of an historical event What considerations of race, gender, class, or other lenses of difference can be made to illuminate the social and cultural experiences of people throughout history The central focus of this course is to provide students with an exploration into various lenses of historical research and analysis and how these lenses can structure the types of questions an historian asks. The course uses the topic of transatlantic slavery to introduce several lenses that can be applied to future topics of interest to students. Students will integrate best practices for the production and writing of historical scholarship using a chosen lens (or lenses) of analysis.", "credits": "3"}, "HIS600": {"title": "Early American Encounters", "description": "The modern nation of the United States of America was born out of European colonization. The themes that arise from these early encounters between colonists from different European countries, Native Americans, and displaced Africans as they created the \"New World\" continue to shape America's social, political, economic, and cultural landscape to this day. In this course, students investigate how historian understand the different facets of the creation of this New World, including armed conflict, cultural cooperation, gender roles, environmental issues, and the role of religion in conquest.", "credits": "3"}, "HIS601": {"title": "New American Nation", "description": "America has held many titles as a result of its political inception, including \"the birthplace of democracy\" and \"the first nation based on an idea.\" Does the historical evidence substantiate those claims Was the American Revolution truly \"revolutionary\" In this course, the separation of the American colonies from England and the political, cultural, social, and economic realities that resulted are critically examined. Students will challenge and refine previously held or popular notions of the period encompassing Revolutionary-era America through the early nineteenth century.", "credits": "3"}, "HIS602": {"title": "Era of the Civil War", "description": "The era of the American Civil War is one of the most studied periods in American history. Despite the robust and well-established scholarship on the topic, vibrant debates and competing schools of thought still exist. In this course, students will add to this rich tradition with their own interpretations of the social, economic, cultural, and political roots of the conflict and its relevant impacts on the American narrative. Emphasis is placed on applying different methodologies and lenses to the vast historical body of knowledge surrounding the antebellum period through the Reconstruction era. Students evaluate the implications of methodology and lens on interpretations of the Civil War.", "credits": "3"}, "HIS603": {"title": "The Gilded Age and Progressive Era", "description": "This course examines the period between Reconstruction and the first World War, paying particular attention to the emergence of industrial capitalism, the rise of the modern American city, the shifting nature of rural life in America and the rise of Populism, immigration, racial tensions, Progressivism, the conquest of the West, and the rise of the United States as a global power militarily, economically, and politically.", "credits": "3"}, "HIS604": {"title": "America and the World Wars", "description": "As America emerged on the stage as a world power, it is not surprising that increased involvement in international affairs followed. America's participation in the world wars of the twentieth century brought about profound changes related to international diplomatic relations, the expanding role of the state in economic and military policy, cultural and ideological shifts domestically and globally, and technological innovations in weaponry, transportation, and manufacturing. While the consequences of warfare on the greater world stage are central to this course, students also will examine the myriad ways in which social, political, and cultural life transformed in the United States during this era. Students contend with how historians have, both implicitly and explicitly, inserted value judgments into their interpretations of the methods of war, political regimes, human rights issues, and geopolitical reorganizations of the era.", "credits": "3"}, "HIS605": {"title": "Cold War and the American Empire", "description": "The Cold War period has been defined by America's ideological conflict and proxy warfare with the Soviet Union. The tremendous cultural, social, economic, and political turmoil that resulted from this era, including such events as the Vietnam War and the civil rights movement, can still be felt throughout the globe today. In this course, students draw connections among contemporary issues and their foundations in the period between the end of World War II and the fall of the Soviet Union. Students explore how the essential nature of this conflict compares and contrasts to traditional conceptions of \"war,\" examine to what extent the Cold War was representative of a paradigm shift in terms of foreign policy and military engagements, and investigate the general relationship between war and society in this period.", "credits": "3"}, "HIS620": {"title": "History of Military Thought", "description": "This course examines the development of military theory and practice throughout history, exploring prominent military figures and major campaigns. This subject matter is global in scope, including topics from both the Eastern and Western worlds. Students will investigate how different societies influence and are influenced by military affairs, including war and social changes, diplomatic efforts, and cultural differences in military theory.", "credits": "3"}, "HIS630": {"title": "The Russian Revolutions", "description": "The Russian revolutions of 1917 rank among the most monumental events of the modern era. The collapse of the tsarist regime and the triumph of communism placed Russia on a tumultuous and often painful path toward modernization and forever changed the course of world history. Beginning with the 1890s and continuing until the early 1920s, this course will analyze the background, the unfolding, and the aftermath of the twin upheavals of 1917: the February Revolution that destroyed the Russian monarchy and the October Revolution that brought the Soviet government to power. Students will investigate the political, socio-economic, cultural, and ideological factors that shaped this transformation, and will also explore the interactions among revolutionary processes and military events such as World War I and the Russian Civil War. They will utilize recent scholarship on these topics to develop their own understanding of the historiography of the subject.", "credits": "3"}, "HIS640": {"title": "Chinese Imperialism", "description": "This course provides an overview of major military campaigns, strategies, and tactics in Chinese history. Students will explore the cultural aspects of military campaigns and warfare in China and be introduced to the latest scholarship on the topics explored. Students will also engage with the historiography of a topic of interest and define their own interpretations based on scholarly research.", "credits": "3"}, "HIS660": {"title": "Introduction to Public History", "description": "Unlike many other areas of history, public history distinguishes itself in its application focus and community orientation. Public historians are charged with protecting our historically significant artifacts, cataloging our historical wisdom, and communicating our cultural narratives. In this course, the foundational principles and mission of public history are investigated and evaluated. Students assess the landscape of public history, including the major thinkers, controversies, emerging trends, and ethical demands. Finally, students must articulate a distinct identity for public history and situate themselves within that context.", "credits": "3"}, "HIS661": {"title": "Public History Strategic Management", "description": "A public historian can expect to be responsible for a myriad of projects and tasks that require a marriage of historical knowledge and business acumen. In this course, students will augment their existing framework to include the skill sets of project management, budgeting and finance, legal competencies, and other pragmatic considerations that are essential for the public historian. Attention will be given to issues of intellectual property, fundraising and donations, interpersonal skills and people management, artifact care, and motivating volunteer organizations. ", "credits": "3"}, "HIS662": {"title": "Digitization of History", "description": "The potential and possibilities for preserving historical artifacts have been fundamentally transformed by digitization. The ability to design, plan, execute, and maintain digitization projects and repositories has become essential for public historians. In this course, students apply information system theories and utilize relevant technologies and tools to engage in the digitization process. An emphasis is placed on the need for public historians to take an adaptive and open-minded approach to technology, due to its capabilities for furthering the missions of public history.", "credits": "3"}, "HIS663": {"title": "Documentary Editing", "description": "This course is one of three specialized offerings in public history collections management. The focus of this course is documentary editing, or the assembling of comprehensive document collections. Documentary editors must scrutinize, verify, and organize the resources upon which historical scholarship rests. This includes making the difficult, and potentially controversial, decisions about what is included and what is not. In this course, students engage in research, evaluation, transcription, annotation, and compilation of historical artifacts. The implications of documentary editorial decisions on future understandings of the past are assessed.", "credits": "3"}, "HIS664": {"title": "Archival Management", "description": "This course is one of three specialized offerings in public history collections management. The focus of this course is archives, or the accumulation of historical records that have been set aside for future reference. Archivists must store, catalog, preserve, and retrieve archival materials that are considered to be of significance to a group. In this course, students apply the major theories of archival science to determine the authenticity, reliability, integrity, and usability of various records. Best practices for developing and maintaining archives are investigated. Additionally, the ethical considerations surrounding the care of records of social value are evaluated.", "credits": "3"}, "HIS665": {"title": "Museum Collection Management", "description": "This course is one of three specialized offerings in public history collections management; the focus is museum curation. Today's museums are being challenged to alter their approach and redefine the museum experience to meet the intellectual curiosity of 21st-century patrons who crave contribution and participation over passive observation. In this course, students will evaluate the impact of these social dynamics on the field of museum science. Additionally, students will propose creative solutions to address new expectations without sacrificing the enduring principles at the core of a museum's mission.", "credits": "3"}, "HIS790": {"title": "Research Seminar for Historians (Capstone)", "description": "The capstone experience integrates knowledge and skills developed in previous coursework with a focus on developing scholarship in a student's chosen area of specialization. This course focuses on helping students propose a topic for research, conduct preliminary research on primary and secondary sources, and develop a capstone research proposal. This course prepares students for the formal capstone submission in the subsequent capstone course.", "credits": "3"}, "HIS791": {"title": "Capstone for Research Historians", "description": "The capstone experience integrates knowledge and skills developed in previous coursework with a focus on developing scholarship in a student's chosen area of specialization. This course extends students' research proposals into a formal capstone project. Students will workshop and submit their final capstone projects in this course. ", "credits": "3"}, "HIS792": {"title": "Capstone for Public Historians", "description": "The capstone experience integrates knowledge and skills developed in previous coursework with a focus on developing the final capstone deliverable. Public historians will demonstrate the skills they have learned in conceiving of, maintaining, and managing content for public history organizations. Students will workshop and submit their final versions of their capstone in this course.", "credits": "3"}}, "Human Resource Management": {"HRM630": {"title": "Topics in Health Administration", "description": "This course focuses on developing organizational processes and structures utilizing the Total Quality Management approach to deliver health services which meet the needs of diverse clientele and a complex environment. Included are topical presentations by health care providers concentrating on the structure and delivery of quality health services.", "credits": "3"}}, "Human Services": {"HSE101": {"title": "Introduction to Human Services", "description": "This course provides an overview of the historical development of human services and an introduction to the many settings, roles, and functions of the human services professional. Students will gain an understanding of the knowledge and skills needed to help support others toward living a more fulfilling life with particular attention given to behavioral and social theories, common social problems, service delivery systems, ethical behavior, and personal values.", "credits": "3"}, "HSE210": {"title": "Healthcare Systems", "description": "This course gives students a basic understanding of service provision in the United States healthcare system. The history of the U.S. healthcare system and the various forces that have influenced its development will be examined. It will provide an overview of the role of human services practitioners in hospital, acute care, long-term care, home health, and hospice settings and the importance of contributing to the multi-disciplinary team providing patient care. Basic medical terminology and its use in patient care plans will be explored in addition to trends in evidence-based practice and outcomes measurement.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Components of Healthcare Organizations"}, "HSE215": {"title": "Child Growth and Cognitive Development", "description": "Human service professionals must be prepared to work with and provide proper support to children and adolescents. This course focuses on child development from birth through adolescence with an emphasis on the physical, cognitive, social, and emotional components of normal development. Additional attention will be given to those situations where normal development does not occur, factors which influence or impede development, and community and school-based resources available to assist families.", "credits": "3"}, "HSE220": {"title": "Communication Skills for Human Service Professionals", "description": "This course provides students with the knowledge and skills to effectively, efficiently, and compassionately communicate both orally and in writing. Emphasis will be given to the tools of communication as well as how to clearly articulate the issues, deal with conflict, and establish rapport. Human services professionals function in many settings requiring the ability to communicate the needs and issues of their clients, programs, and organizations to a broad variety of people.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Organizational Culture in Healthcare"}, "HSE310": {"title": "Family and Community Systems", "description": "In this course, students will gain the knowledge and skills to help families negotiate the complex system of organizations in their communities that provide services. Programs and organizations that provide support to families will be profiled, including community medical and mental health providers, non-profit organizations, the Department of Human Services, and the Family Court. In addition, tools that are frequently used in understanding family systems are presented including Socio-grams, Eco-maps, and Genograms.", "credits": "3"}, "HSE315": {"title": "Role and Impact of Trauma on Children and Families", "description": "This course prepares students to provide services to children and families in highly emotionally charged and legally complicated situations. The short and long term influence of physical and psychological trauma on children and families are explored including domestic violence, substance abuse, neglect, sexual assault, and prenatal trauma. In addition, the course will explore the role of a human services professional and complying with legal responsibilities and limitations, safety, secondary trauma, and ethical considerations.", "credits": "3"}, "HSE320": {"title": "Human Services Organizational Systems", "description": "This course prepares students to function effectively within organizations, as most human services work involves interactions with multiple private and public organizations. Students develop an understanding of organizational structure and functions through an overview of common organizational structures and management systems and the principles of organizational behavior that influence the work environment. An introduction to the strategic planning and budgeting cycle is provided including the process of grant funding. Basic concepts of personnel management and common techniques and procedures for outcome measurement and program evaluation will also be presented.", "credits": "3"}, "HSE325": {"title": "Ethics and Laws in Child Welfare", "description": "This course prepares students to navigate the legal and ethical complexities of family problems involving children . This course focuses on the state and federal laws, regulations, and ethical principles that establish the framework for Child Welfare programs. Specific issues covered include child protection programs, child abuse and treatment laws, parent and child rights and responsibilities, education law, and emancipation laws. In addition, the course will examine child custody, foster care, adoption and the child \"best interest\" standards.", "credits": "3"}, "HSE330": {"title": "Public Policy and Advocacy", "description": "Students in this course will become acquainted with human services policies and the legislative and private sector processes of policy development. Students will further discover the role of advocacy in influencing social welfare programs for a variety of populations. Students learn the skills needed to act effectively in developing policies and for planning an advocacy campaign.", "credits": "3"}, "HSE335": {"title": "Prevention and Crisis Intervention", "description": "This course examines the role of the human services professionals in delivering both prevention and crisis intervention services. Human services professionals often have the opportunity to provide prevention services that build on the strengths of the client, thereby increasing protective factors and decreasing risk factors. At the same time when a client is in crisis, human services professionals work to ensure safety and minimize the trauma. The knowledge and techniques needed to implement prevention programs and practices, and respond to individual, family, and community crises will be addressed in this course.", "credits": "3"}, "HSE340": {"title": "Law and Ethics in Human Services", "description": "Students in this course will learn about the laws and regulations that govern human services practice. Specific topics will include confidentiality, parity, involuntary commitment, mandated reporting, duty to warn, minor and parental rights, guardianship, and advanced directives. The course will also discuss the ethical principles that guide human services practice as well as the conflicts that arise between the ethical principles and the law.", "credits": "3"}, "HSE350": {"title": "Substance Use: From Screening to Consultation", "description": "Explore the IC & RC 12 Core Functions of a substance use counselor. Learn evidence-informed approaches to  practice that align with national standards.", "credits": "3"}, "HSE351": {"title": "Substance Use: From Prevention to Treatment", "description": "Explore the continuum of care model and best practices in substance use disorders including early intervention, prevention, treatment and recovery services. Develop a novice knowledge base of community resources to support each component of the continuum.", "credits": "3"}, "HSE352": {"title": "Substance Use: Counseling Theory and Practice", "description": "Examine a variety of theoretical approaches with a focus on evidence-based counseling techniques widely used in Substance Use Disorder treatment. Practice ethical and culturally sensitive documentation skills to record individual and group therapy progress notes. ", "credits": "3"}, "HSE353": {"title": "Pharmacological Factors in Substance Use Treatment", "description": "Explore the physiology and pharmacology of substance use and the impact psychopharmacological chemicals have on the human body. Identify drug classifications, side-effects, and rationales for medication selection. Discuss current trends and issues in drugs of choice and medication-assisted therapy.", "credits": "3"}, "HSE410": {"title": "Case Management", "description": "Students will learn fundamental theories, concepts, and practices related to the delivery of human services. Topics covered in this course will include client engagement, interviewing, models of service delivery, ethics and professional responsibility, group dynamics and facilitation, boundaries, and formal/informal client-centered support systems. Students will apply course work to real life situations by assessing the needs of clients and designing goal-based care plans.  Additionally, students will plan and design interventions, utilize community resources, and assess client outcomes.", "credits": "3"}, "HSE480": {"title": "Human Services Capstone", "description": "This capstone course is the culminating experience for the B.A. in Human Services program. The aim of the capstone is to assess students' ability to synthesize and integrate the knowledge and skills they have developed throughout their coursework, rather than introducing new concepts. This course is structured to support student success in fulfilling program requirements.", "credits": "3"}}, "Humanities": {"HUM100": {"title": "Perspectives in the Humanities", "description": "Art, literature, and philosophy tell lasting stories. Beyond the intended purpose of the artists and authors, or the shifting interpretations of the audiences, these creations tell us about cultural development, changes in worldview, and common themes that span centuries and continents. How have you come to understand the world How do you express that understanding through the act of creating This course investigates the purpose of art, literature, and philosophy across different periods, how its themes represent the cultures that produced it, and how that art still serves society today.", "credits": "3"}, "HUM200": {"title": "Applied Humanities", "description": "What is the purpose of art, literature, and philosophy? Is it enough to create simply for the act of creating, or should a work serve as a deliberate commentary, be it political, social, personal, or derivative of other motivations? In this course, students have the opportunity to select works, collections, or periods within the humanities for research and study. The study is guided by both subjective and objective analyses to differentiate between an artist\u2019s or author\u2019s intended meaning and a society\u2019s interpretation of that meaning.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Communicating to Diverse Audiences"}}, "Individually Designed": {"IND299": {"title": "Strategies for Specialization Planning", "description": "Develop an academic plan of study in alignment with a selected specialization within the General Studies major. Establish a rationale for specialization selection reflective of previous education experience, interest, and background toward future career goals.  ", "credits": "3"}}, "Information Security": {"ISE510": {"title": "Security Risk Analysis and Planning", "description": "This course explores core areas of information security risk and planning, including risk analysis, business continuity, disaster recovery, incident response and security controls. The course will also explore risks as they relate to areas like financial regulations and privacy. Other topics include governance and internal and external partnerships, emerging threats and vulnerabilities, and emerging security capabilities.", "credits": "3"}, "ISE620": {"title": "Incident Detection and Response", "description": "This course provides students with the background and skills to manage information security incidents to minimize impact on business operations. Topics include detection, investigation, and response to different types of security incidents. Students explore these topics by developing incidence response plans; utilizing industry-standard processes and tools for investigating information security incidents; and recommending processes for incidence response that adhere to legal, regulatory, and organizational compliance. Students who have completed the course have a comprehensive view of cyber security incident detection and response.", "credits": "3"}, "ISE640": {"title": "Investigation and Digital Forensics", "description": "In this course, students learn the theory, practice, and principles of digital forensics through investigation of computer, network, operating system, mobile device and other areas of digital forensics. Topics include identification, collection, acquisition, authentication, preservation, examination, analysis and presentation of digital forensic evidence.", "credits": "3"}, "ISE690": {"title": "Cyber Security Capstone", "description": "This capstone course integrates previous coursework and practical experience with a focus on authentic demonstration of competencies outlined by the program. Rather than introducing new concepts, students synthesize prior learning to design, develop, and execute an analytics project on their chosen subject as a culmination of their studies. The course is structured around this critical capstone assessment, so that students have the appropriate support and resources required to be successful.", "credits": "3"}}, "Information Technology": {"IT100": {"title": "Introduction to Information Technology", "description": "This is the fundamental computer fluency course. It is designed to promote a working knowledge and understanding of computer information technology concepts, skills and capabilities that support academic and professionally related goals and requirements. Students learn about the application and science of information technology. Concepts to master include the fundamentals of computer information technologies along with issues that affect people today such as : Internet and other network technologies, web publishing, digital media, hardware, software, file and database management, information security, viruses, and spyware, social impact, as well as algorithmic thinking and the limits of computation. Students develop capabilities such a managing complexity, assessing the quality of information, collaborating and communicating using IT, anticipating technological change and thinking abstractly and critically about IT. Students develop computer-related skills in support of their college studies and career goals. This is accomplished, in part, by the mastery of word processing, spreadsheet, presentation, and database software.", "credits": "3"}, "IT140": {"title": "Introduction to Scripting", "description": "Learn the fundamentals of programming concepts including data types, variables, decision statements, loops, input and output. Develop simple scripts using common scripting language constructs including lists, literals, and regular expressions. Gain an introduction to programming through hands-on activities that are beginner-friendly.", "credits": "3"}, "IT145": {"title": "Foundation in Application Development", "description": "This course is an introduction to the design, implementation, and understanding of computer programs. The course emphasizes programming as a problem-solving technique in business and engineering applications. Students will write computer code in a logical, structured, and organized manner. The course also covers the key concepts of object orientation, including inheritance, encapsulation, polymorphism and communication with messages. Other topics include classes and objects, base classes and class hierarchies, abstract and concrete classes. Students will learn to write, review and document interactive applications and working with Software Development Kits and Integrated Development Environment tools. This is a programming course and lab intense.", "credits": "3"}, "IT200": {"title": "Fundamentals of Information Technology", "description": "This course offers a broad introduction to the tools and applications students will need to become successful professionals in the IT environment. Students will examine the core information technologies of human-computer interaction, information management, programming, networking, web systems and technologies, as well as information assurance and security.", "credits": "3"}, "IT201": {"title": "Computer Platform Technologies", "description": "This course provides the hardware/software technology background for information technology personnel.  Hardware topics include CPU architecture, memory, registers, addressing modes, busses, instruction sets and a variety of input/output devices.  Software topics include operating system modules, process management, memory and file system management.  Also included are basic network components and multi-user operating systems. ", "credits": "3"}, "IT204": {"title": "Introduction to Data and Information Management", "description": "This course provides students with an introduction to the foundations of data and information management, centered around the core skills of data management and database organization. The course will focus on identifying organizational requirements for data and information, modeling the requirements using relational techniques, implementing the models into a database using a database management system, and understanding the issues of data quality and data security. The course will also introduce the framework of enterprise information management and the growing need for managing data and information in organizations effectively to support decision making and competitive advantage.", "credits": "3"}, "IT207": {"title": "Information Technology and Digital Games", "description": "Introduction to digital games and information technology covers game genres and platforms, interface design, game implementation, artificial intelligence, business economics of the game industry, game marketing and design, e-collaboration, and e-commerce.  Students learn how to use software packages to design and implement digital games and how to use the Internet to market and distribute digital games. The course includes a project which will culminate in the conception, design, and prototype of an original digital game.  The course is designed for students who have an interest in IT and games, including original game concepts, design and implementation, and executive leadership in the game industry. Knowledge of computer programming is not required.    ", "credits": "3"}, "IT209": {"title": "Introduction to Robotics", "description": "This course covers Introduction to Robotics, Applications of Robots, Return-on-Investment, Abstract Models, Controlling Robot Motion, Complex Motion, Robotic Sensors, Input / Output, External Sensors, Threads, Event Programming, Remote Communication, Remote Sensing, Behavior Programming, and Human/Robot Interfaces. Students will gain hands-on experience with emerging robot technologies, understand industrial applications of robots, and ramifications of human/robot interaction.   ", "credits": "3"}, "IT210": {"title": "Business Systems Analysis and Design", "description": "This course provides students with the necessary level of information technology education relative to understanding the uses and roles of information systems in business organizations. Students receive instruction on the information concepts and methodologies associated with the development of business information systems, and their effective application to the solution of business problems. Students learn the major issues of managing information technology in the contemporary business environment and the relationship between organizations' structures and information technology. Team approaches are utilized along with structured computer laboratories and cases using spreadsheet and database management tools. Writing intensive course.", "credits": "3"}, "IT230": {"title": "Software Development with C#.NET", "description": "This course is designed to introduce C#, an event-driven, fully object-oriented, visual programming language.  The course covers the Visual Studio.NET integrated development environment (IDE) while covering the basics of the C# language. Topics include input / output statements, arithmetic and logical operations, control structures, program modules (methods and classes) and arrays.  Students will be involved in writing programs of increasing complexity throughout the course.  This is a programming course.", "credits": "3"}, "IT235": {"title": "Database Design", "description": "Develop database designs using industry-standard modelling tools and techniques. Evaluate user requirements to identify optimal database models that solve common business problems. Examine approaches to structural and object-orient design that consider today\u2019s varied data types.", "credits": "3"}, "IT241": {"title": "Human Factors in Cybersecurity", "description": "This course introduces students to the human factors present in cyber security related to ethics, integrity, practices, policies and procedures. Using a scenario-based approach, students will examine the human behaviors that could potentially cause a security threat and investigate how organizational policies and procedures can be developed to mitigate them. ", "credits": "3"}, "IT242": {"title": "Introduction to Geographic Information Systems", "description": "This course is designed to introduce the student into the exciting new world of mapping software. Mapping software has found many uses throughout government, universities, business, as well as in the public policy arena. Students will learn how to use mapping tools that are available with data driven web sites, as well as learn how to create their own maps with mapping software. Students will learn how to work with different kinds of data sets and how to incorporate them into customized maps for analysis and presentation.", "credits": "3"}, "IT252": {"title": "Information Technology Teams and Group Dynamics", "description": "This course focuses on group functioning and leadership and the factors involved in group cohesion and conflict, and communication systems with a focus on the IT enterprise. ", "credits": "3"}, "IT255": {"title": "Introduction to the Linux Operating System", "description": "Introduce students to the major components of the Linux operating system and the basics of the Linux command line. Work with files and directories, archive and compress files, and search and extract data from files using pipes and redirection. Learn how to package Linux commands within a script.", "credits": "3"}, "IT261": {"title": "IT Service Management", "description": "The purpose of this course is to provide students with an understanding of the management of information technology, including the relationships of parties involved, the tools for IT process improvement, and best practices involved in the field. Students focus on the relationship among an IT organization, business customers, and users. They explore the customer's perspective of IT's contribution to the organization and they learn ways to communicate effectively with stakeholders. Students examine the relationships of IT service management to process improvement movements, for example, Six Sigma improvement methodology, total quality management (TQM), business process management (BPM), and Capability Maturity Model Integration (CMMI) standards.", "credits": "3"}, "IT270": {"title": "Web Site Design", "description": "This course serves as an introduction to creating interactive pages for the World Wide Web. Specifically, it will survey Internet concepts, network protocols and client-server communications. The course covers HTML, the language of the World Wide Web; the Document Object Model (DOM), essential to creating and manipulating elements of a Web page under program control; CSS, the syntax for building consistent styles and appearances across Web pages; and JavaScript, the programming language that cements the various technologies together to facilitate dynamic interactive elements.", "credits": "3"}, "IT312": {"title": "Software Development with C++.NET", "description": "This course teaches students how to design, implement and test applications in the C++ programming language.  Topics include C++ data types, operators, functions, classes and inheritance.  The course introduces students to issues associated with developing real-world applications by presenting several case studies. The concepts of object-oriented design and programming are covered.  This is a programming course.", "credits": "3"}, "IT315": {"title": "Object Oriented Analysis and Design", "description": "This course develops software systems engineering principles combining object-oriented design principles and methods augmented by computer assisted engineering (CASE) technology.  The course involves use of the unified modeling language (UML) and, through the vehicle of a student group project, applies these elements to the system development life cycle.  This course is writing intensive, as student project teams are required to submit a comprehensive project report and a PowerPoint presentation.  Specialized Systems Development Computer Laboratory intensive and open laboratory intensive.   Writing intensive course.", "credits": "3"}, "IT320": {"title": "Network Security", "description": "Gain an overview of network security defense techniques and countermeasures. Develop communication and analytical skills through the discussion and debate of a variety of topics, such as cryptanalysis and attacks, safety of wireless connections, intrusion detection methods, and access control. Engage in assignments designed to provide practical applications of content, such as the design and configuration of firewalls, traffic analysis and filtering, intrusion detection, statistical anomaly detection, and wireless security.", "credits": "3"}, "IT328": {"title": "Project Management in Information Technology", "description": "Employ project management strategies specific to IT projects. Examine responsibilities of key stakeholders. Explain project planning with key considerations related to risk management and project tracking.", "credits": "3"}, "IT331": {"title": "Human Factors in Information Technology", "description": "This course addresses the importance of understanding and advocating for the end user in the development of IT applications and systems. Students will be exposed to Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) fundamentals including user and task analysis, human factors, ergonomics, accessibility standards, and cognitive psychology. Emphasis will be placed on user-centered methodologies in the development, evaluation, and deployment of IT applications and systems.", "credits": "3"}, "IT332": {"title": "Infrastructure Management", "description": "This course investigates the primary infrastructure components of modern information systems. In particular the course focuses on the main components of an information technology infrastructure: hardware systems; network; and storage structures. Students will recommend tools and technologies for managing IT infrastructures. Students will recommend solutions for enhancing information technology infrastructures to solve business problems resulting from process change or growth to an enterprise. ", "credits": "3"}, "IT335": {"title": "Security Principles", "description": "This course will focus on the fundamental principles of information security management from a systems perspective. While other courses will provide the deep dive into specific areas of security, this course will serve as an exploration into how the varying principles of systems-level information security management are employed to achieve secure solutions. Students will examine how security policies, standards, and controls can be reliably implemented to create trustworthy systems that mitigate risk in accordance with organizational security postures. Students will also gain insight into the systems-level security of information over time, touching on organizational, legal, and technological changes that impact the safety, reliability, and validity of information.", "credits": "3"}, "IT338": {"title": "Geospatial Programming", "description": "This course will provide the fundamental skills necessary for geospatial programming. Topics will include calling geographic processing tools, batch processing, performing file input/output in an external computing language and building, graphical user interfaces, and displays. To support these tasks, students will learn basic object-oriented programming concepts.", "credits": "3"}, "IT340": {"title": "Network and Telecommunication Management", "description": "This course provides an in-depth knowledge of data communications and networking theory, concepts and requirements relative to telecommunications and networking technologies, structures, hardware and software.  Emphasis is on the concepts of communications theory and practices, terminology, and the analysis and design of networking applications.  Management of telecommunications networks, cost-benefit analysis and evaluation of connectivity options are covered.  Students can design, build and maintain a local area network (LAN).", "credits": "3"}, "IT345": {"title": "Network Planning and Maintenance", "description": "In this course, students learn about the specifics of planning, maintaining, and auditing data communications and networks in an organization. Students engage in assignments focusing on business planning, long- and short-term planning, operations, maintenance, and forecasting. They also explore topological design, network synthesis, and network realization.", "credits": "3"}, "IT355": {"title": "Web and Mobile User Experience", "description": "Designers strive to optimize the interaction between the user and the system to create a smooth and productive user experience. Students in this course focus on the particular challenges of creating user-centered mobile applications.  They also investigate the design process deliverables used to communicate with clients, technical leads, and stakeholders.", "credits": "3"}, "IT365": {"title": "Operating Environments", "description": "Learn about operating environments used in today\u2019s business computing environments, including enterprise level systems down to mobile devices. Gain an understanding of the components in an operating system and how they interact with each other and with system hardware and application software.  Explore the importance of writing programs that take full advantage of operating support.", "credits": "3"}, "IT380": {"title": "Cybersecurity and Information Assurance", "description": "This course explores the basic concepts in cybersecurity and information assurance.  Topics include security policies, models, and mechanisms for secrecy, integrity, and availability of communications and information.  The course also covers approaches to prevent, detect and recover from the loss of information, cryptography and its applications, vulnerability scanning, functions of a chief security officer software applications and web services for maintaining information security and security in computer networks and distributed systems.", "credits": "3"}, "IT385": {"title": "Information Technology Communications", "description": "The course focuses on the essential oral and written communication tools and strategies used when communicating in technology organizations, emphasizing on how to make information more usable and accessible to multiple audiences. Students will review how to develop functional specifications and proposals, training programs, technical illustrations, and web information architecture.", "credits": "3"}, "IT390": {"title": "Mobile Application Design and Development", "description": "This course focuses on the techniques and tools necessary to achieve successful system implementation of mobile applications. Topics covered include managing the system implementation process, implementation design issues, how mobile application development is affected/constrained by existing software, techniques for writing quality code, techniques for testing code, understanding the role of proper documentation, and understanding, designing and managing implementation support functions. Students go through all the steps necessary to code, test and develop an actual mobile application. The course consists of a mix of lectures and hands-on laboratory work.", "credits": "3"}, "IT412": {"title": "Cyberlaw and Ethics", "description": "This course stresses the social and professional context of IT and computing related to ethical codes of conduct. Students will examine the historical, social, professional, ethical, and legal aspects of computing in the 21st century.  ", "credits": "3"}, "IT415": {"title": "Advanced Information Systems Design (Capstone)", "description": "This is the first of a two-part capstone course for IT majors which covers the major methodologies used in Systems Analysis, Design, and Implementation.  This course focuses mainly on the systems analysis part of the systems development process and emphasizes SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle).  Different system development strategies are examined within the broader context of identifying and understanding the detailed stages the make up the systems analysis process. Students will learn how to a perform feasibility analysis, and to create a system proposal. Fact finding techniques used to determine system requirements will be identified and studied. Standard graphical modeling tools used in systems analysis will be covered: process modeling with data flow diagrams; data modeling with entity relationship diagrams; and object-oriented modeling using UML.  The basic activities of project management are examined. Students will be assigned a systems development project case with concrete milestones, enabling the practical application of concepts presented in the course. This is a lab intensive course.", "credits": "3"}, "IT420": {"title": "Advanced Information Systems Implementation (Capstone)", "description": "This is the second part of the Capstone course for IT majors.  The student groups will implement and document the systems project designed in IT 415 using an appropriate computer programming language or database management system.  The instructor and students critique all projects weekly. ", "credits": "3"}, "IT431": {"title": "Software Development in Distributed Systems", "description": "Students learn XHTML, including how to use image maps, frames, cascading style sheets and scripting languages. Various browsers will be introduced. Server-side development using CGI, ASP, ColdFusion and PHP for distributed applications will be covered. Server-side topics such as servlets and JSPs, along with Java and XML, will be introduced.  Writing intensive course.", "credits": "3"}, "IT450": {"title": "Artificial Intelligence", "description": "This course explores contemporary tools and principles of artificial intelligence that focus on Web commerce applications and business intelligence in particular.  Topics include mining data for business intelligence and collaborative software agents that utilize resources on the Web to carry out tasks for individuals and organizations.", "credits": "3"}, "IT460": {"title": "Machine Learning", "description": "This course will address the computational study of artificial systems that adapt to novel situations, discover patterns from data, and improve performance with practice through popular frameworks for learning, including supervised, reinforcement, and unsupervised learning. Students will examine a state-of-the-art overview of the field, emphasizing the core statistical foundations.", "credits": "3"}, "IT465": {"title": "Digital Multimedia Development", "description": "This course presents digital multimedia theory and develops skills that meet the design and technical requirements of professionally created multimedia for World Wide Web commercial applications on a variety of platforms and Internet applications. Each student develops a professional portfolio consisting of CD-ROM material.  Students also develop working Web sites that display their multimedia projects.  Topics include sound, animation, video, interactivity and multimedia distribution.", "credits": "3"}, "IT476": {"title": "Experiential Learning", "description": "Participate in an experiential learning elective course that focuses on professional development, certification preparation or professional practice opportunities.  Explore and learn new tools and technologies that help you hone your real-world technical knowledge, skills and abilities.  This course requires a minimum of 60 hours in the learning experience and may be taken for credit a maximum of two times.   ", "credits": "3"}, "IT489": {"title": "Information Technology Portfolio Planning", "description": "This capstone course is the culminating experience for the B.S. in Information Technologies program. The aim of the capstone is to assess students\u2019 ability to synthesize and integrate the knowledge and skills they have developed throughout their coursework, rather than introducing new concepts. This course is structured to support student success in fulfilling program requirements.", "credits": "3"}, "IT490": {"title": "Information Technology Internship", "description": "The consent of the program coordinator/department chair, the school dean and the Career Development Center are required for this course. ", "credits": "0 - 15"}, "IT505": {"title": "Core Technologies", "description": "This course familiarizes students with the basic concepts of information systems to strengthen their knowledge of hardware and software systems, including supporting information technology infrastructures. Students will gain an understanding of the application of fundamental information technology competencies related to computer networks, software and delivery systems for delivering products and service within an enterprise to customers, suppliers and clients. Additionally, students examine the skills and dispositions that shape their professional identities. ", "credits": "3"}, "IT510": {"title": "Advanced Information Technology", "description": "This course focuses on the principles and practices underlying the analysis, design, implementation and management of information technology systems.  Topics include information system development methodologies, systems planning, requirements analysis, systems implementation, software engineering, project management, and interface, database and process design.", "credits": "3"}, "IT511": {"title": "Object Oriented Application Development", "description": "This course provides a comprehensive introduction to the principles and practices of object- oriented software development and provides a foundation for developing quality software. Students develop skills in applying object- oriented concepts to solve software problems and implement solutions. The course also teaches the concepts and design of algorithms for problem solving and includes the topics of data structures as they are related to the algorithms that use them. The course provides the technical foundation necessary to handle the material covered in the subsequent IT courses.", "credits": "3"}, "IT515": {"title": "Innovations in Information Technology", "description": "In this course, students strengthen their understanding of leadership theory and ethical frameworks in the context of a technology enterprise.  Students will apply this understanding to business cases that reflect the need for innovative technology solutions in today's workplace in order to transform the thinking of an organization when change is required or to develop ideas that enable new business strategies.", "credits": "3"}, "IT518": {"title": "Game Design and Development", "description": "An introduction to tools and techniques used in computer game design and development, and applications for entertainment games, serious games, and business simulations. Includes an analysis of the concepts and tools used computer game artificial intelligence, interaction of three-dimensional objects, story-boarding, and other areas. Students will have the opportunity to work with computer game engines, editors, and programming languages used in the professional game development community.", "credits": "3"}, "IT520": {"title": "Technical Communication", "description": "The course focuses on the essential oral and written technical communication skills needed for producing technical documentation and presentations in many different forms for varying business situations. The course enables students to understand the needs of stakeholders in order to develop different technical documents such as white papers, design specifications, project plans, test plans, user manuals, etc. The ability to communicate research findings using appropriate academic formatting will also be addressed.  ", "credits": "3"}, "IT549": {"title": "Foundation in Information Assurance", "description": "This course explores the basic concepts and prepares students with the foundation skills for the protection of networks, communication, and data, as well as the knowledge base for planning, implementing, and managing enterprise level security and system integrity. Topics include approaches in an organization to prevent, detect and recover from the loss of information, cryptography and its applications, security in networks and distributed environments.", "credits": "3"}, "IT550": {"title": "Management of Information Technology", "description": "This course is a detailed introduction to the major issues underlying the successful management of information technology in contemporary organizations. The course covers three major areas: (1) The interrelations between organizational structure and process, and the adoption of new information systems technologies; (2) The actual management of the IT function within the organization; and (3) IT project management which focuses on the operational steps in designing and carrying out specific IT projects. This course will utilize case studies as an introduction to real-world IT management best practices and strategies, and to guide students to understanding the impact of emerging technologies in business contexts.", "credits": "3"}, "IT552": {"title": "Human Factors in Security", "description": "This course examines the human factors present in cyber security related to ethics, integrity, practices, policies and procedures.  Students will design information technology security awareness training and optimize information technology organizational factors to foster a healthy security culture within an organization. Additionally, students will recommend mitigation strategies to protect an organization from human behaviors that could potentially cause a security threat.", "credits": "3"}, "IT600": {"title": "Operating Systems", "description": "This course focuses on computer architecture and the operating systems of digital computers. Students learn about the operational methods of hardware; the services provided by operating systems' software; acquisition, processing, storage and output data; and the interaction between computers.  Topics include widely used operating systems such as DOS, Windows, and UNIX.", "credits": "3"}, "IT620": {"title": "Object-Oriented Systems Design", "description": "This course focuses on the principles required for developing object-oriented information systems. Topics include the principles of object orientation, including objects and classes, encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism and communication with messages.  Also covered are class hierarchies, abstract and concrete classes, model and view separation, design patterns and visual development. This course provides hands- on experience with object-oriented development environments.", "credits": "3"}, "IT625": {"title": "Information Technology Project and Team Management", "description": "This course introduces the students to the principles and practices necessary to be an effective IT project manager.  The course covers project scope, time, cost, quality and human resource management techniques as applied to the kinds of project management problems and issues unique to the IT environment.  Students learn how to design an actual IT project structure and will obtain hands-on experience using project management software.  Emphasis is on the techniques of project management, leadership, teamwork and project risk management as applied to the IT environment. Case work is an important part of this course.", "credits": "3"}, "IT632": {"title": "Software Design and Modeling", "description": "This course covers software development life cycle models (waterfall, spiral, agile, etc.) with an emphasis on the design phase. Given software system requirements, students will create and document a software design using industry standard modeling techniques with emphasis on UML (class, sequence, state). Subtopics include software design patterns and software architecture (MVC).", "credits": "3"}, "IT633": {"title": "Mobile Application Development", "description": "This course examines the development of mobile applications, including mobile application frameworks, effective mobile application design, and data persistence. Students will construct a mobile application for the Android, iOS, or Windows mobile application market using Java, C# or Objective-C.", "credits": "3"}, "IT634": {"title": "Distributed Application Development", "description": "This course explores how to develop and deploy distributed web applications, including web services and HTML5 applications that run on a mobile device.", "credits": "3"}, "IT640": {"title": "Telecommunications and Networking", "description": "Telecommunications is a business resource that must be well managed. This includes the technical aspects and the application of telecommunications technology to solve specific business problems and enhance the strategic position of a business enterprise. Topics include the importance of telecommunication in today\u2019s business environment, the analysis, design and implementation of telecommunications systems, the scope of the telecommunications industry and current trends; telecommunications hardware, the Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) network model, networking technologies and telecommunications software, protocols and standards.", "credits": "3"}, "IT643": {"title": "Network Assessment and Defense", "description": "Explore a broad range of topics from secure network fundamentals, protocols and analysis; threats and vulnerabilities; application, data and host security, access control and identity management. Examine defensive measures to secure an organization\u2019s network. Identify overall network security posture and the basic practices in vulnerability assessment.", "credits": "3"}, "IT647": {"title": "Website Construction", "description": "This course is an introduction to the construction of interactive websites. It involves technical issues such as standards, HTML/XML, scripting, embedded rich media, and database connectivity, and design issues such as audience analysis, content organization, accessibility, page layout, styling and templates. The course focuses on designing websites with creative interfaces, aesthetic style, functional structure, and navigation.", "credits": "3"}, "IT648": {"title": "Website Optimization", "description": "This course covers the methodologies that are used to drive traffic to websites and how to make websites profitable. In addition, methods of monitoring websites, such as counting users, click-throughs and more are explored. Students will examine how to gather statistics about website usage, demographics and other data relative to site popularity. This course also focuses on the creation of websites that serve diverse purposes, such as marketing, customer service, recruitment and more, including websites with international audiences. The differences between general and secure sites and the linking of diverse websites also will be explored.", "credits": "3"}, "IT649": {"title": "Interface Design for Websites", "description": "This course expands the student's basic knowledge of web page and website development by providing in-depth focus on designing web applications with the user in mind. Students gain knowledge about how human factors relate to interface design. Guidelines for determining design problems and strengths, usability assessments, and best practices for common functions such as web navigation, menus, scrolling, graphics and icons are explored.", "credits": "3"}, "IT650": {"title": "Principles of Database Design", "description": "This course is a study of the design, development and implementation of database management systems (DBMS) that emphasize relational DBMS architecture using SQL. Students will design and implement projects and complete case exercises as they are introduced to new developments in database design.", "credits": "3"}, "IT655": {"title": "Database Application Development", "description": "Analyze database designs and application functions and respond to run-time errors to identify opportunities for performance tuning. Utilize normalization techniques and optimize database queries to improve application performance. Develop recommendations for enhancing performance of commercial multi-user database applications.", "credits": "3"}, "IT657": {"title": "Enterprise Resource Planning", "description": "This course combines the practice of business management with information technology at the point where technology integrates with fundamental business skills that support business objectives. Students will examine business management best practices and enterprise systems in organizations that support business functions. Emphasis will be placed on how information technology can support and enable integration of technology and business process re-engineering.", "credits": "3"}, "IT659": {"title": "Cyberlaw and Ethics", "description": "This course addresses ethical and legal issues related to e-commerce and e-business. Students will investigate government approaches to content control and rights, access and jurisdiction regarding personal information, digital property, U.S. and international law, antitrust law, fraud and more.", "credits": "3"}, "IT660": {"title": "Artificial Intelligence", "description": "Students study the concepts, techniques, applications and implications of artificial intelligence theory and technology.  The course also focuses on the applications of rule-based expert systems in business, industry and government.  Topics include knowledge representation and acquisition, heuristic search in problem solving and game playing, genetic algorithms, fuzzy logic, neural networks, automatic deduction and logic programming. Students create expert systems using Prolog.", "credits": "3"}, "IT665": {"title": "Client/Server Systems", "description": "This course focuses on the elements and methodologies used in the development of client server applications.  Students design and build client applications that manipulate data in a shared database environment on a network. Topics include user interface design, object- oriented design, data management and data security. Theoretical concepts are reinforced with applications.  The course is project- oriented, with students implementing projects using a front-end application development language.", "credits": "3"}, "IT675": {"title": "Data Warehouse Concepts and Design", "description": "This course presents the principles of design, development, and recommended implementation strategies of a Data Warehouse DBMS based on the dimensional modeling architecture. Data warehouse management issues will also be examined, along with an introduction to data mining as a tool for analytical decision support. Students will design and recommend implementation strategies of a data warehouse architecture.", "credits": "3"}, "IT697": {"title": "Experiential Learning", "description": "Experiential learning is a short-term educational professional development or training experience opportunity that allow students to explore professional development; certification preparation and/or professional practice experiences, completing a minimum of 80 hours in that experience. The primary goal of the experiential learning opportunity is to expose students to actual practices in the professional workspace outside of the classroom. The students will relate this experience to academic coursework and synthesize the practical application of knowledge in an experiential setting. This is an elective experiential learning opportunity course intended for College of Online and Continuing Education students.", "credits": "3"}, "IT700": {"title": "Capstone in Information Technology", "description": "This capstone course is the culminating experience for the M.S. in Information Technology program. The aim of the capstone is to assess students' ability to synthesize and integrate the knowledge and skills they have developed throughout their coursework, rather than introducing new concepts. This course is structured to support student success in fulfilling program requirements.", "credits": "3"}, "IT710": {"title": "Information Technology Internship", "description": "This course is to enable the School of Business graduate students to gain valuable work experience within the field of Information Technology. The objective is to give the students an opportunity for practical application of Information Technology business concepts learned in classes and complement the course work taken. Secondarily, internships offer the opportunity to develop crucial job searching skills, explore career interests, enhance your resume, make contacts in your chosen field and build references for future employment. Each intern will work in a career-related position during the academic term for which the student is enrolled for the internship - completing a minimum of 150 hours on the job per 3 credits.", "credits": "3"}}, "Instructional Design & Technology": {"IDT510": {"title": "Instructional Design and Technology as A Profession", "description": "In this course students receive an overview of the Instructional Design and Technology (ID&T) profession. Students begin to develop research-based knowledge, skills, and dispositions that shape their professional identity as ID&T specialists. Students engage multiple methods of instruction including real-world, case-based problems resembling those they would encounter, and be expected to solve, within higher education, corporate, and client-specific settings.", "credits": "3"}, "IDT520": {"title": "Theories of Learning for Instructional Design", "description": "In this course students analyze seminal learning theories and how they are applied to instructional design solutions. Various aspects of cognition, memory, behavioral conditioning, experiential learning, and the construction of knowledge are explored in the context of designing effective learning experiences that draw from appropriate principles of learning. Students, using theoretical knowledge to guide them, explore how technology can be leveraged to effectively meet the needs of diverse learners and approaches to instruction in applied settings.", "credits": "3"}, "IDT530": {"title": "Technology for Learning", "description": "The one constant within instructional design is change-especially when it comes to technology. In this course, students explore how technological innovation has evolved and transformed instructional design approaches. Students consider how cutting-edge digital technologies can be applied to sound design and weigh how their applications align with contemporary approaches to learning within various settings.", "credits": "3"}, "IDT540": {"title": "Assessment and Evaluation", "description": "People do not know how well they are designing instruction unless they know how learners are responding to instruction, whether they are performing, and to what extent they have acquired new knowledge and skills. In this course, students explore and construct assessments designed to measure how well learners have mastered certain outcomes. The course initially focuses on objective assessment test construction and then emphasizes authentic performance-based assessment approaches. Students also explore how professional standards-based curricula inform instructional choices and accreditation efforts. ", "credits": "3"}, "IDT550": {"title": "Learning Design I", "description": "Instructional designers can plan learning for diverse sets of learners in various environments. Through the use of case studies, this course prepares students to conduct a \"needs assessment,\" to fashion learner outcomes based on institutional/client needs, and to align those outcomes with specific instructional and learning activities. Students are required to integrate technological enhancements and solutions where appropriate. ", "credits": "3"}, "IDT610": {"title": "Multimedia Design and Production", "description": "This course serves as a foundation for research-based multimedia design and production. Students attain core principles and tools necessary for effective learning design, which will be further developed in later design and production coursework. This is a production-oriented course that focuses on the direct application of principles through the use of current and emerging multimedia design tools, emphasizing informed, deliberate decision making for effective design.", "credits": "3"}, "IDT620": {"title": "Learning Design II", "description": "Sound instructional design pays careful attention to how the learners are positioned to engage multiple learning environments. Research suggests that learner-centered, interactive learning environments that value one's experiences can richly inform the learning process. This course requires students to make their assumptions about the learner explicit and design conventional, technological, and hybrid based learning experiences that heighten interactivity. Finally, the challenges and benefits of standards-based design are engaged in this course. ", "credits": "3"}, "IDT630": {"title": "Decision Making in Multimedia Design And Production", "description": "This course provides the frameworks instructional designers use to purchase and integrate external vendor products or leverage internal assets to address an identified learning need. Educational institutions and corporations rely heavily on instructional designers to make resource-based decisions that align with capacity, scope, and needs. Balancing these needs will inform the production, piloting, and implementation processes. Finally, this course focuses on the user-interface design of learning environments, improving engagement and interaction with instruction. ", "credits": "3"}, "IDT640": {"title": "Managing Instructional Design and Technology Projects", "description": "All instructional endeavors require the careful management of time- and fiscally-based resources, as well as collaborative efforts across multi-functional teams. This course equips instructional design and technology students with essential project management tools and strategies to plan work flow, develop effective communication protocols, assess project risks, and develop accountability structures that facilitate production processes. Students engage problem-based scenarios and will use the tools provided to best manage organizational risk and satisfy stakeholder needs and demands.", "credits": "3"}, "IDT650": {"title": "Learning Design III", "description": "Learning Design III provides students with opportunities to apply advanced design principles in a workshop-based environment. The problem-based course focuses on the application of sophisticated design tools to create solutions for various environments and contexts. This course serves as a precursor to the development of the capstone portfolio.", "credits": "3"}, "IDT670": {"title": "Seminar in Instructional Design and Technology", "description": "This course explores trends, issues, and emergent technologies that inform the field of instructional design. Students critique the capacity of technologies to deliver effective learning and instruction through research-based frameworks and standards. Emphasis is placed on engaging with the field of research, asking students to enter conversations of personal interest as a professional colleague in instructional design and technology.", "credits": "3"}, "IDT690": {"title": "Capstone in Instructional Design and Technology", "description": "The capstone experience in instructional design and technology asks students to develop a comprehensive professional portfolio of design and research. Drawing from experiences in students' coursework and professional-based activities, students reflect on the artifacts and experiences that they will bring forward into their next professional setting. The capstone will provide evidence of competency across the degree program outcomes.", "credits": "3"}}, "Integrated Health Profession": {"IHP200": {"title": "Wellness Across the Lifespan", "description": "Examine the stages of human development and life events that influence health and wellness throughout the lifespan. Students focus on a developmental framework as a frame to explore early adulthood through old age and death.", "credits": "3"}, "IHP210": {"title": "Health Promotion", "description": "Health Promotion is a problem based course designed to give students an overview of health promotion issues, explore selected current topics in health and health policy from a national and global perspective and investigate the consequences these issues have for the health status of individuals, populations and society. This course will provide the theoretical foundation to look at issues to change health behaviors. Healthy People 2020 and the national health agenda will be explored. The concepts of health literacy, consumer advocacy and their impact of health promotion will be explored.", "credits": "3"}, "IHP220": {"title": "Applied Nutrition", "description": "An introductory course in normal and therapeutic nutrition designed for students in allied health programs. The course focuses on the application of basic principles of nutrition to health promotion and disease prevention, as well as the role of nutritional intervention as a therapeutic tool in specific pathologies. It will include discussions of contemporary issues in nutrition.", "credits": "3"}, "IHP310": {"title": "Pathophysiology and Pharmacology Concepts", "description": "This course explores common diseases, treatments, procedures and drugs needed to analyze healthcare documentation for functions such as abstracting, coding, auditing, and reimbursement. Drug classifications are also included. Implications related to pathophysiological and pharmacological concepts are applied to health information management. ", "credits": "3"}, "IHP315": {"title": "Patient Safety Systems and Strategies", "description": "Students explore core tenets that promote a culture of patient safety, including assessment through the Hospital Survey on Patient Safety (HSOPS), incident and safety reporting systems, disclosure policies and communication and teamwork strategies including human factors and TeamSTEPPS. Additionally, students will examine methodologies to improve patient safety, including Root Cause Analysis, Failure Mode Effects Analysis and utilization of a system-wide Patient Safety Plan.", "credits": "3"}, "IHP323": {"title": "Health Aspects of Human Sexuality", "description": "This course will introduce recent findings on the study of human sexual behavior, with emphasis on the interaction between psychological, social, and biological factors. Topics include sexual differentiation and development, the sexually transmitted infections and HIV, sexual orientation, and patterns of sexual behavior. Students will receive an overview of the dynamics of human sexuality, specifically, examining the influence and importance of human sexuality as it relates to individuals, communities, and global populations with specific aim towards health promotion activities.", "credits": "3"}, "IHP325": {"title": "Dimensions of Mental Health", "description": "This course examines the comorbidity of mental and physical disorders, taking a life-span epidemiological approach. The increasing complexity in the field of mental health, with clients who live and work in the community with a variety of disorders, is explored. Emphasis is placed upon theories and empirical research clarifying comorbidities, risk factors, and mechanisms and strategies to help these individuals live productive and satisfying lives.", "credits": "3"}, "IHP330": {"title": "Principles of Epidemiology", "description": "Learn basic principles of epidemiology with emphasis on applications in healthcare management. Examine specific epidemiology tools used for purposes of planning, monitoring, and evaluating population health.  Consider methods for managing the health of populations, understanding the factors that influence population health, and strategies that healthcare organizations and systems can use to control these factors.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Epidemiology"}, "IHP340": {"title": "Statistics for Healthcare Professionals", "description": "This course explores the basic statistical concepts of inference, variability, and statistical significance.  Statistical methods used to describe data, quantify relationships and to test for differences between means will be studied.  Parametric statistics will be the main focus but some common nonparametric tests will be introduced.  The course will focus on the interpretation of published research findings.", "credits": "3"}, "IHP355": {"title": "Healthcare Regulatory Compliance and Accreditation", "description": "Students will explore the history and development of key regulatory agency requirements and accreditation standards enacted to improve Patient Safety and Quality. Agencies reviewed will include The Joint Commission, Magnet, OSHA, CMS and state licensing bodies. Students will also explore how to assess compliance, manage quality and patient safety processes through development of healthcare organization plans, and ongoing evaluation and reporting requirements for key metrics and sentinel events.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Regulation and Compliance in Healthcare"}, "IHP410": {"title": "Population Health and Cultural Competence", "description": "This course explores a population-based approach to understanding disease management, chronic care management, and health policy making. It explores how behavioral factors, social circumstances and environmental exposures affects a population and how to mitigate these factors using culturally relevant approaches to create a culture of wellness.", "credits": "3"}, "IHP420": {"title": "Ethical and Legal Considerations of Healthcare", "description": "Students in this course examine the role of health care policy and legal, regulatory, and quality control in ethical decision making in healthcare. Students explore concepts and principles of health care policy, legal control, ethical conduct, and regulatory environments and their application to the health care environment. The impact of health care policy and multicultural, socioeconomic, political, legal, and regulatory factors on health care systems is explored.", "credits": "3"}, "IHP430": {"title": "Healthcare Quality Management", "description": "The goal of this course is to introduce students to the management of operations and explore how healthcare organizations can use advance methods to improve healthcare processes, delivery, and outcomes. Specific focus will be on analyzing cycle times (e.g., patient wait times), measuring productivity, streamlining process flows, tracking outcomes and performance metrics, and generally improving health management processes and health outcomes. The process improvement will be measured by how it can improve quality of care and safety of healthcare delivery, reduce waste, and reduce costs. The role of technology and innovative approaches in improving continuing quality improvement in healthcare delivery will be presented.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Healthcare Quality"}, "IHP435": {"title": "Performance Improvement Measurement and Methodologies", "description": "This course will explore methodologies for performance improvement including PDSA, Six Sigma and Lean, principles of measurement, and selection of appropriate measures including structure, process and outcome measures. Students will determine how data should be displayed for target audience, identify statistical measures to describe data, and distinguish between common and special cause variation. Other topics will include developing operational definitions, establishing benchmarks and sampling.", "credits": "3"}, "IHP450": {"title": "Healthcare Management and Finance", "description": "This course focuses on the concepts, principles, tools, finances and strategies used in managing operations within a performance improvement model. Students will explore problem solving and decision making models as well as tools and techniques for planning, organizing, directing, controlling, reporting, and improving the productivity and performance of resources within a healthcare department. Additionally, topics will include healthcare finance reimbursement, bookkeeping, accounting principles, budgeting processes (capital and operating), and cost/benefits analysis.", "credits": "3"}, "IHP501": {"title": "Global Health and Diversity", "description": "This course provides students with broad foundation in the structure of healthcare delivery systems; the political, financial and social constructs affecting the healthcare systems; and how policy and social determinants of health influence access, equity and outcomes in health. Utilizing this foundation and authentic real world scenarios, students will evaluate the efficacy of existing policy and interventions as well as lead interdisciplinary teams in the design of culturally relevant strategies to prepare students to advance the health for a specific population.", "credits": "3"}, "IHP504": {"title": "Healthcare Policy and Financing", "description": "Developed for the health care administrator and providers, this course prepares students with a full understanding of financial planning, control measures and financial management to effectively examine and address the complex financial challenges within the healthcare sector. Analysis and identification of healthcare financial trends, finance sources and reimbursement models will be addressed.", "credits": "3"}, "IHP505": {"title": "Leadership in Clinical Microsystems", "description": "This course covers clinical microsystem concepts, tools, techniques, and processes. This course uses current theories to approach issues related to the redesign of healthcare services to improve quality, add value, reduce variation and improve morale, by empowering frontline caregivers.", "credits": "3"}, "IHP510": {"title": "Marketing, Communications Strategies and Outreach", "description": "This integrated course will explore healthcare strategic planning from a marketing and public relations perspectives. Topics explored will include health literacy, communicating the message, use of media and social media, and advertising. Students will understand how to conduct market needs assessment and develop and evaluate a marketing campaign.  ", "credits": "3"}, "IHP515": {"title": "Population-Based Epidemiology", "description": "This course focuses on research designs and methods to describe measures of disease occurrence and risk factor associations utilizing quantitative information to ascertain whether relationships exist between risk or protective factors and diseases in population. When looking at potential causal associations, it explores the role of chance, bias, and confounding and effect modification and how this may influence the design and interpretation of epidemiologic studies. ", "credits": "3"}, "IHP525": {"title": "Biostatistics", "description": "This course provides students with a basic foundation of biostatistics and its role in public health and health sciences. The course covers the statistical principles that govern the analysis of data in public health and health sciences. Included in this course are exploratory data analysis, probability theory, confidence interval testing, hypotheses testing, power and sample size determination, and multivariable methods.", "credits": "3"}, "IHP600": {"title": "Social & Organizational Issues in Healthcare", "description": "Students will learn the social, ethical and organizational challenges healthcare workers at all levels face with the incorporation of technology into the healthcare setting. Students will study change management strategies, current in the Healthcare Industry, including the impact of introducing or enhancing clinical information systems, while providing quality care, and the effect of these systems on patients and on interdisciplinary teams within the healthcare setting.", "credits": "3"}, "IHP604": {"title": "Healthcare Quality and Improvement", "description": "Gain a broad view of US healthcare quality including its evolution and trajectory given the dynamic US healthcare landscape and changing demographics.  Explore key concepts including the integration of health information and technologies to promote healthcare quality at the organizational level.", "credits": "3"}, "IHP605": {"title": "Error Science, Risk Assess & Disclosures", "description": "This course focuses on error theory and systems thinking as well as methods for risk assessment and safety improvement, including high-risk contexts for error occurrence.  Students will be introduced to what is currently known about effective methods for error disclosure.  Students will develop proficiency with patient safety risk assessment and improvement methods, principles of safe system design, apology and related patient safety priorities. The course includes a discussion of the legal issues prevalent in the current health care environment.", "credits": "3"}, "IHP610": {"title": "Health Policy and Law", "description": "Students in this course examine the role of health law and policy in the healthcare system.   Students explore concepts and principles of law, public health, health law, health policy, finance, legal control, and risk management, as well as their application to the healthcare environment through the lens of the professional discipline.  Students evaluate the impact of health law and policy and multicultural, socioeconomic, and political factors on access disparities.  Students examine ways to articulate the needs of individuals, communities, and vulnerable populations to consumers, health system officials, and government officials. Students also focus on the opportunities for key stakeholders, including healthcare professionals, to shape health laws and policies.", "credits": "3"}, "IHP620": {"title": "Economic Principles of Healthcare", "description": "This course provides the student with a rigorous introduction to the micro- and macroeconomic theory to understand the healthcare landscape both from a financing and policy perspective. Topics explored include market behavior; demand theory; production and cost theory; decision-making in competitive and non-competitive markets, Gross Domestic Product determination; unemployment and inflation; and fiscal and monetary policy.", "credits": "3"}, "IHP630": {"title": "Healthcare Finance and Reimbursement", "description": "This course provides an in-depth exploration of the healthcare reimbursement system and financial principles relevant to strategic planning for the healthcare organizations. Topics explored include the healthcare reimbursement system, managed care, prospective payment, insurance, Medicare and Medicaid, financial and managerial accounting principles, and long-term financing and capital investments.", "credits": "3"}, "IHP640": {"title": "Measurement, Analysis, & Models for Performance Improvement", "description": "This course examines the principles of measurement, analysis and models for performance improvement to promote continuous quality improvement. Design and data collection will be explored including sampling methodology, operational definitions, establishment of benchmarks, and data integrity and differentiating between structure, process and outcome measures. Topics for measurement and analysis examined include using statistics to describe data (e.g. mean, median, standard deviation); using statistical process control charts to identify trends and distinguish between common and special cause variation; using tools to evaluate a process or display data (e.g. fishbone, run charts, Pareto chart, control chart, etc.); and evaluating data to support decision-making. Students will also explore models for performance improvement including PDSA, Six Sigma and Lean. Nursing students who successfully complete the course with a B- or better will receive 45 indirect practice hours.", "credits": "3"}, "IHP645": {"title": "Regulatory Compliance, Accreditation and Promoting a Patient Safety Culture", "description": "This course explores the history of the patient safety movement, regulatory requirements and accreditation standards for healthcare organizations.  Principles of patient safety and error science will include methods for risk assessment and safety improvement and analysis of errors through Serious Reportable Events, Root Cause Analysis and Failure Mode Effects Analysis. Students will be introduced to advanced communication strategies including group dynamics, power structures, team and team roles, hand-offs, chain-of-command, and error disclosure. Utilizing a systems thinking approach students will explore change management, collaborative practice, human factors, just and punitive cultures, and creating a high reliability organization through standardization of processes and transparency. Nursing students who successfully complete the course with a B- or better will receive 45 indirect practice hours.", "credits": "3"}, "IHP670": {"title": "Program Design, Planning and Evaluation", "description": "This course explores program design, planning and evaluation utilizing needs assessment, data analysis, resource allocation, and evaluation methodologies. This course provides the student with a strong foundation in the development of a program proposal.", "credits": "3"}}, "Interdisciplinary Studies": {"IDS100": {"title": "Perspectives in Liberal Arts", "description": "Explore the four general education lenses of academic inquiry: Humanities, History, Social Science, and Natural Science. Apply these lenses as a framework for understanding relevant topics, distinguish opinion from research, and communicate ideas clearly. Develop an awareness for different points of view and how they impact the development of a well-educated individual.", "credits": "3"}, "IDS400": {"title": "Diversity", "description": "This course aims to broaden and deepen students' understanding, experience, and critical thinking skills with regard to cultural differences and cross-cultural interactions.  Students will analyze diversity through the disciplines of socio-economics, physical anthropology, biology, geography, and arts and the humanities. Intercultural competence, a lifelong learning process, is introduced as a crucial skill set and benefit to the individual, interpersonal relationships, organizations, and society. Analyzing the role of culture in today's world, developing culturally responsive practices, and understanding the benefits and challenges of diversity will be emphasized.", "credits": "3"}, "IDS401": {"title": "Global Society", "description": "This course aims to expand upon students' understanding, experience, and critical thinking skills, connecting the roles of the individual at the local, national, and global levels. Students will be analyzing global issues that affect different aspects of identity - individual, national, and global - through the lenses of economics, political science, technology, and business, among other disciplines. Increased global awareness, an important knowledgebase for the 21st Century individual, is emphasized to prepare students for personal and professional relationships with individuals, groups, and organizations that present themselves through a global network.  Analyzing the challenges of shifting from local to global, researching the relationship of technology and society, and understanding the importance of the individual in relation to a global society will be emphasized.", "credits": "3"}, "IDS402": {"title": "Wellness", "description": "This course aims to engage students in an integrative exploration of emerging issues and topics in wellness across several disciplines. In addition to psychology, students will analyze wellness through the lenses of biology, sociology, economics, health, and philosophy, among other areas. Students will develop the skills to examine wellness from an individual perspective as well as investigate issues surrounding wellness in contemporary society. Definitions of ability and disability, research and analysis of wellness goals, and the relationship between mind and body are emphasized to increase awareness of personal and public wellness.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Emerging Trends in Healthcare"}, "IDS403": {"title": "Technology and Society", "description": "Explore the relationships among technology, the human condition, and the future through interdisciplinary lenses. Analyze contemporary trends and the social and cultural implications of those advancements. Develop an awareness for the intersection between technological literacy, social responsibility, and interpersonal experiences.", "credits": "3"}, "IDS404": {"title": "Popular Culture", "description": "Explore theoretical approaches to a study of Popular Culture through the interdisciplinary lenses of academic inquiry (historical, humanistic, socio-cultural, and scientific). Analyze the broad spectrum of popular culture as a significant driving force behind the transmission of culture and the impact on shaping the individual. Develop a knowledge base that promotes social responsibility, media literacy, and the critical thinking skills that promote cross-cultural intersections. ", "credits": "3"}}, "International Business": {"INT113": {"title": "Introduction to International Business", "description": "This course is the foundation for business in a global context with an emphasis on applications. It offers a survey of fundamentals and principles of management in the context of globally oriented firms and primarily presents an assessment of the differences between business in domestic and international context.  The course explores fundamental issues in business in an increasingly interdependent world; including management principles and techniques in a global context. Themes constituting fundamentals of international business such as economic, political, cultural and social environment of business; organizations that facilitate international business and organizational structures; trade theory; government influence on trade; international business modalities and entry strategies into foreign markets, global financial system as well as the emerging issues related to international business; are also explored.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is International Perspectives"}, "INT221": {"title": "Global Financial System", "description": "This course is designed to familiarize students with global financial architecture and the modus operandi of global financial markets and multinational financial institutions, with the focus on policy- and concept-oriented issues in international banking and international capital markets. It aims to provide a comprehensive background to understand the international financial environment and to expose students to a wide range of international financial functions, operations and products.", "credits": "3"}, "INT309": {"title": "Legal Environment of International Business", "description": "The course is designed to provide students with an overview of the areas of public and private international law that affect international business activities. The United Nations Conventions on International Sale of Goods will be given particular attention. .", "credits": "3"}, "INT311": {"title": "International Human Resources Management", "description": "This course will examine and explore key issues that are critical to the successful utilization of a multicultural workforce.  These include the international staffing process, identifying unique training needs for international assignees, reconciling home-country and host-country performance appraisal systems, identifying the characteristics associated with a good compensation program and exploring the major differences between labor relations in the U.S. and Europe.  Most students interested in international human resource management should normally have already taken OL 215, a course in domestic human resource management, or some preliminary introduction to the world of international law, government, economics and marketing. ", "credits": "3"}, "INT315": {"title": "International Management", "description": "Gain a holistic perspective of international management across the major functional areas of business as they are practiced in a multinational organization. Explore the influence of culture, politics, society, and economics on conducting business globally, and navigate the balance of ethics and corporate social responsibility in international operations.", "credits": "3"}, "INT316": {"title": "Cultural & Political Environment of International Business", "description": "This course introduces students to such primary cultural factors as religion, language, values, technology, social organization and political environment that affect U.S. firms doing business outside of the United States. Students learn the significance of identifying and assessing the importance of these factors so they can more effectively manage in the international environment. A variety of international environments will be studied. The course uses text, cases and exercises.", "credits": "3"}, "INT335": {"title": "Importing & Exporting in International Trade", "description": "The primary focus of this course is \"How to Get Started Building an Import/Export Business.\" This course introduces students to many complexities of building an import/export business, including economics and politics, planning and negotiation, foreign currency transactions, shipping and insurance, documentation and the intricacies of exporting from and importing to the United States.", "credits": "3"}, "INT400": {"title": "International Business Project", "description": "This course is designed for those students who are pursuing a major and those that have definite interest in carrying out a career in International Business as well as those who seek to broaden their knowledge in the field. Explicitly, the course will introduce students to the contemporary issues and challenges faced by managers of Multinational Corporations in the International Business setting. The course will give students the opportunity to work in teams by focusing on a practical approach to learning. It will provide students with skills that can facilitate their entry into a job market in International Business or related field at various levels of expertise.", "credits": "3"}, "INT422": {"title": "International Strategic Management", "description": "The course introduces students to strategic management in the global arena. It focuses on the internal strategic environment of an organization, the external strategic factors present in the international environment, and the manner in which a strategic thrust and a strategic fit are created between these two environments. The course relies on the use of case studies of U.S. and foreign international corporations. Writing Intensive Course.", "credits": "3"}, "INT433": {"title": "Multinational Marketing", "description": "Examine international similarities and differences in the cultural, economic, political, social and physical dimensions of the environment in relation to marketing and sales functions. Learn about the changes in marketing systems and the adoption of marketing philosophies and practices across national boundaries through the study of the foundations, scope, and challenges of global marketing. Develop market entry and integrated marketing strategies for new products in global markets including media, communication, distribution, and pricing strategies.", "credits": "3"}, "INT440": {"title": "Emerging Trends in International Business", "description": "This course is designed to be a survey of the emerging trends in international business. Class analysis will focus on both the macro- and micro- environments of the global arena. Major emphasis will be placed on regional economic integration, inter-regional trade, corporate strategic global perspectives and other major contemporary issues facing global managers today. Writing Intensive Course.", "credits": "3"}, "INT600": {"title": "Multinational Corporate Management", "description": "This course is an introduction to the nature of international operations and issues of management for multinational activities, with particular emphasis on the cultural, political, economic and physical dimensions of foreign nations.", "credits": "3"}, "INT601": {"title": "Global Entrepreneurship", "description": "This course explores the entire process of engaging in entrepreneurial activities in the global arena. The course covers in detail five essential areas of business development in the global market: Fundamentals and Identifying Opportunities, Valuation and Risk Management, Mobilizing Resources, Managing Contingencies and Changing Contexts, and Growth, Harvesting and Exit of businesses. Each of these areas will be covered in detail and supported with actual global case studies to enhance the learning of concepts. Students will test their skills by researching the creation of a global company.", "credits": "3"}, "INT605": {"title": "Introduction to International Business & Information Technology", "description": "Students are introduced to the theories of globalization with emphasis on the impact of information technology. Through case analysis and group research, students will explore the impact of information technology on the operation of the multinational firm.", "credits": "3"}, "INT610": {"title": "Multinational Corporate Environment", "description": "Apply effective cross-border research and analysis tools and techniques for addressing today's dynamic international commerce environments. Analyze the impacts of foreign economic, political, cultural, and commerce environments on the international dimensions of management, marketing, operations, and finance.  Develop a global managerial mindset to effectively leverage international business concepts when recommending management solutions to achieve organizational objectives.", "credits": "3"}, "INT615": {"title": "International Operations", "description": "Examine quality tools, inventory control techniques, and forecasting methods used to manage systems that produce an organization\u2019s products in the international market. Evaluate methods used by operations managers and determine the effects of those decisions on organizations\u2019 throughput, value, and efficiency. Integrate quality, capacity, sustainability, inventory control, and other strategic considerations into recommendations specific to international operations initiatives.", "credits": "3"}, "INT617": {"title": "International Strategic Sourcing and Logistics", "description": "Analyze strategic sourcing and logistical functions essential to supply chain management in the international environment. Study contracts, trade resources, and trade theory of the overall supply chain, and apply these concepts to real-world scenarios. Recommend planning strategies and techniques for optimizing international logistics of goods.", "credits": "3"}, "INT619": {"title": "International Operations and Supply Chain Management", "description": "Examine international operations and supply chain management together, as a network that provides a strategic advantage to global managers. Study sources of finance of trade, agencies related to international trade, and the requirements of international trade documentation. Analyze final distribution functions and best practices of offshore procurement within the global supply chain and develop effective international outsourcing and distribution initiatives.", "credits": "3"}, "INT620": {"title": "International Corporate Finance", "description": "Analyze functions of international financial markets. Discuss corporations\u2019 exposures to financial risks in global markets and how corporations address these risks and global funding strategies. Examine exchange rate systems, interest rate parity, and management of real exchange rate risk. ", "credits": "3"}, "INT621": {"title": "Advanced Multinational Financial Management", "description": "The course focuses on global company's short and long term financing and investment decisions as well as measurement and management of exchange rate and international interest rate risks. A range of advanced international finance techniques and their institutional setting are introduced throughout the course and students are exposed to practical applications through case studies and other experiential learning techniques.", "credits": "3"}, "INT623": {"title": "International Capital Markets and Investments", "description": "Evaluate investment opportunities in global markets from the institutional perspective. Discuss various investment vehicles and strategies that can be used to meet investors\u2019 objectives. Examine risks and benefits of global investments and determine global market inefficiencies using financial analysis techniques.", "credits": "3"}, "INT627": {"title": "Advanced Topics in International Finance", "description": "Analyze short and long-term opportunities, possibilities, and current threats to global financial institutions and governments. Study contemporary issues and emerging trends in various global finance sectors based on current underlying market conditions. Develop strategies for financial institution expansion into global markets that minimize the associated risks.", "credits": "3"}, "INT640": {"title": "International Market Strategy", "description": "Develop practical managerial skills in multinational market research, branding, consumer behavior, sales, and product development in a global market. Study topics including budgeting, market entry, local market development, and global market integration. Assess foreign market conditions in mature, new growth, and emerging market environments for developing effective international marketing strategies.", "credits": "3"}, "INT650": {"title": "Managing International Trade and Finance", "description": "Explore the complexities of international trade policy and foreign direct investment decisions.  Analyze how the global monetary system, economics and trade factors influence currency exchange rates and impact profitability. Research international trade regulation and the impact of such policies on industry and firm competitiveness. Evaluate the informal and formal rules that define foreign markets for goods, services, and capital to successfully navigate key factors of foreign direct investment.", "credits": "3"}, "INT655": {"title": "Understanding Emerging Markets", "description": "This course is designed to provide a unique international business experience to students through an experiential learning process structured around a required international field trip. The course combines an online preparation stage where students theoretically examine the forces underlying political and economic dynamics in emerging markets with a live case study conducted through a field trip to one or two designated emerging market economies. Through an in depth analysis of cultural, political and economic factors encapsulated in these two stages, students will learn about critical strategic issues and operating challenges as well as business conditions of emerging markets and develop perspectives on managerial issues and gain essential skills for success.", "credits": "3"}, "INT660": {"title": "International Negotiations", "description": "The issues and problems inherent in conducting business across different cultures are examined in this course. Students develop skills and strategies needed for effective negotiation with people from different cultures and societies.", "credits": "3"}, "INT675": {"title": "International Corporate Governance & Control", "description": "Students in this course will develop an expertise in the area of international corporate governance and control and become familiar with the research tools being used in the discipline. Students will have the opportunity to conduct research and present an original research paper in an area of interest within the field.", "credits": "3"}, "INT695": {"title": "Seminar in International Business and Information Technology (Capstone)", "description": "This capstone course is designed to provide a practical application of the concepts and theories of how to apply information technologies to international business problems. Focused on how information technology can be used to solve contemporary global business issues, students will gain a real-world perspective through project work.", "credits": "3"}, "INT700": {"title": "Multinational Business Strategy (Capstone)", "description": "This is a capstone course for the international business certificate. The course integrates various aspects of international business and focuses on the formulation of international business strategy. Case studies that cut across various functional disciplines are emphasized.", "credits": "3"}, "INT710": {"title": "International Business Internship", "description": "The primary goal of the internship experience is to expose graduate students to actual practices in the world of work outside of the classroom, to relate this experience to academic course work and to synthesize the two in a practical application of knowledge in an experiential setting. Secondarily, internships offer the opportunity to develop crucial job searching skills, explore career interests, enhance your resume, make contacts in your chosen field and build references for future employment. Each intern will work in a career-related position during the academic term for which the student is enrolled for the internship - Term 1, Term 2, Term 3 or Term 4 - completing a minimum of 150 hours on the job per 3 credits.", "credits": "3"}, "INT750": {"title": "Seminar in Multinational Business", "description": "This course focuses on current issues in international business. It provides students with an opportunity to research topics of interest in international business. It is recommended that students take this as one of the last courses in the Master of Science in international business program. This course is required for the D.B.A. in international business program.", "credits": "3"}}, "Justice Studies": {"JUS101": {"title": "Introduction to Criminal Justice", "description": "This course covers the nature, scope and impact of crime in the United States, independent and interdependent operations and procedures of police, courts and corrections, and introductory theories of crime and delinquency. The course introduces the justice model in a systematic way whereby students delve into the numerous components of the justice system including law enforcement, legal and judicial process and correctional operations. Career opportunities will be fully covered throughout the course.", "credits": "3"}, "JUS102": {"title": "American Policing", "description": "An introduction to the police system in America, which is the gateway to the criminal justice process.  Topics considered include the historical foundations of police processes, occupational roles and tasks of law enforcement, and the nature and designs of typical, as well as innovative, police systems.  Perennial problems of policing, particularly as it relates to community interaction, are also essential components of the course.", "credits": "3"}, "JUS103": {"title": "Correctional Systems", "description": "This course examines the management, structure, and organizational design of correctional institutions. Correctional planning, construction, program evaluation and community interaction will be considered and improvement strategies for correctional operations will be debated and critiqued. The course provides a broad based overview of the correctional system which incarcerates and confines, treats, and reclaims criminal personalities and protects and serves the state and the community by removing threats to the social order.", "credits": "3"}, "JUS104": {"title": "Introduction to Security", "description": "A  basic  overview of private sector justice is the course's chief aim.  Types of security operations and functions comprises much of the course coverage including perimeter and physical security, intelligence gathering, retail and industrial security, terrorism and executive protection as well as security in select business and industrial centers.  Careers, regulation and licensure, and the debate on professionalization are other areas of major  intellectual concern.", "credits": "3"}, "JUS201": {"title": "Criminal Investigation", "description": "This course is a comprehensive examination of civil and criminal investigations in both public and private modes, including most major felony processes and relevant civil actions.  Focus is on the fundamentals of the investigative process and the range of skills necessary for successful performance and management of investigations, including evidence gathering and analysis, witness assessment, field techniques, and linkage between investigative and prosecutorial agencies.", "credits": "3"}, "JUS215": {"title": "The Victim and the Justice System", "description": "This course will examine issues surrounding the central character in a criminal act - the victim. Contents are designed to develop an understanding of what it means to be victimized, including the physical, psychological, and economic impact of crime upon victims, their families, and society in general.  Special consideration will be given to specific victim populations (i.e. survivors of homicides, sexual assault, and family violence), secondary victimization by the criminal system, victim assistance programs, and future trends in this field.  A full review of how the American justice system has responded to the needs of victims is part of the course content and includes a look at victim testimony at sentencing and parole and probation hearings, victim notification, Meghan's law, victim advisory and protection services, and other means in which the judicial system assures victim participation during the adjudicative phase.", "credits": "3"}, "JUS261": {"title": "Judicial Administration", "description": "An examination of the American judicial system, highlighting state, local, and federal tribunals, including an assessment of their hierarchy, subject matter jurisdiction, and administration. Also reviewed will be judicial reasoning, judicial process and the chief personnel responsible for judicial operations.  More particularly the course will expose the various phases inherent in civil and criminal litigation including the concepts of jurisdiction, venue, parties and the pleadings that guide advocacy. Typical case calendars and dockets will be examined throughout the course so that students may acquire a complete understanding of the litigation process.", "credits": "3"}, "JUS305": {"title": "International Criminal Justice", "description": "This course compares and contrasts the criminal justice system of the United States with the systems of other countries on a substantive and procedural basis. A thorough examination of other cultural models of law and justice in order that differences in justice processing and definition become apparent.  Some emphasis is placed on international policing and legal enforcement, whether through INTERPOL, treaty or other regulation.", "credits": "3"}, "JUS325": {"title": "Law, Justice and Family", "description": "A full-fledged review of the justice system's response to the establishment and maintenance of family in the American culture. How the family is defined, its heritage of rights and protections and the differentiated roles of parent and child are central considerations. Further review includes a look at family dissolution, divorce, custody and support disputes and the ongoing problems of visitation. The emerging problems of spousal and child abuse will be keenly analyzed and how the legal systems provide protection from these abuses will be closely scrutinized.", "credits": "3"}, "JUS331": {"title": "Juvenile Justice System", "description": "This course covers the juvenile justice system, with special emphasis on the way it procedurally differs from adult offender adjudication.  The parts of the juvenile justice system, hearings, due process standards and constitutional mandates are fully reviewed.  Status offenders and other youth classifications are considered, together with a historical summary of juvenile court philosophy.  New trends in the procedural disposition of juveniles especially transfer to adult jurisdiction, types of punishment, suitability of the death penalty are discussed.", "credits": "3"}, "JUS375": {"title": "Criminal Law", "description": "An introduction to substantive criminal law that reviews the social, philosophical, and legal foundations of criminal codification.  In addition, the course covers the historical development of criminal law in the U.S.  Other subject matters include parties to crimes including principals/accessories, criminal capacity, criminal elements, e.g. mens rea,  actus rea, and the specific crimes against person, property, and public order. Lastly, the course captures criminal law from the defendant's perspective by reviewing the accuser's mental states, potential defenses and uses of mitigation.", "credits": "3"}, "JUS455": {"title": "Legal Traditions", "description": "This course encompasses a complete examination of the law, its origins, roots and underpinnings in a jurisprudential context.  Coverage includes a focused examination of classical, medieval and contemporary legal thinkers.  Problems of personal privacy, sexual freedom, procreative control, the imposition of penalties, and notions of good will be considered.  Course participants will consider these questions:  What is law? Is law related to religion and morality?  What are the foundations of law in Western Culture?  Can law, ethics and morality be differentiated? How can a legal system be just? Can law shape morality or does morality shape law?  How does Western legal tradition resolve ethical questions such as abortion, suicide, euthanasia, and the death penalty?  Is there a unified vision of law that consists of the good, of virtue and the idea of justice?", "credits": "3"}, "JUS496": {"title": "Administrative Law", "description": "Course exposes participants to administrative law theory and the practical aspects of administrative law practice, both within and outside the administrative agency. Coverage equips the student with the necessary skills to understand, apply, and research relevant statutory and regulatory provisions at the federal and state level, to read, interpret and draft proposed rules and regulations, to become familiar with the process known as the administrative law hearing, the concept of administrative discretion and corresponding remedies. Preliminary drafts of documents, briefs, and opinions relative to the appellate stage of an administrative law proceeding will also be covered.", "credits": "3"}}, "Literature": {"LIT100": {"title": "Introduction to Literature", "description": "This course introduces students to the study and appreciation of literature. It explores the literary genres of fiction, poetry, and drama. There is an option for nonfiction prose as well. The course covers an introduction to literary terminology and an introduction to critical analysis of literature.", "credits": "3"}, "LIT200": {"title": "Critical Approaches to Literature", "description": "Discover the depth of meaning present in written texts by learning some of the most popular approaches to interpreting literature such as New Critical, Reader-Response, Feminist, and Psychoanalytical theory. Gain the tools necessary for more advanced literary study and develop broader critical thinking and analytical skills for the professional workplace.", "credits": "3"}, "LIT201": {"title": "World Literature I: Foundations of Culture", "description": "This course explores both early European (classical and medieval) cultures as well as the great non-European cultures of Asia, Africa and the Americas.  The material covered will vary, but readings will focus on a major theme such as the hero, the role of women, ethical values, views of nature or focus on an important common genre, such as epic or lyric poetry.", "credits": "3"}, "LIT202": {"title": "World Literature II: Renaissance to Modern", "description": "This course introduces students to major works of world literature in translation, excluding the American and British traditions, from the late 1600s to the present. It includes African, Asian, European, Latin American and Middle Eastern literature, with an emphasis on the European. Students will read authors such as Pirandello, Chekhov, Tolstoy, Flaubert, Mahfouz, and Kafka.", "credits": "3"}, "LIT222": {"title": "American Literature II", "description": "This course is a survey of American literature from 1865 to the present. The course will provide students with an introduction to the history of American literature since the Civil War, examining a broad range of literary genres and considering the complex cultural and social context in which these important literary texts were written. Authors may include Mark Twain, Henry James, Jack London, Gertrude Stein, Robert Frost, T.S. Eliot, Eugene O'Neill, Langston Hughes, F. Scott Fitzgerald, Allen Ginsberg, and Toni Morrison.", "credits": "3"}, "LIT229": {"title": "World Mythology", "description": "This course introduces students to the study of mythology. We will read and discuss myths from both western and non-western cultures. Students will also choose one cultures myth to concentrate on for a final project.", "credits": "3"}, "LIT231": {"title": "Nature Writers", "description": "This course introduces students to the prose and poetry of major British and American writers and naturalists since the 18th century who observe nature vividly and write about humanity's relationship with the natural environment.", "credits": "3"}, "LIT300": {"title": "Literary Theory", "description": "This course is an introduction to the major schools of contemporary critical theory, and an examination of principal exponents of these theories. The student will become familiar with the most important features of psychoanalytic criticism, Marxism and feminism and examine the meaning of structuralism and post-structuralism. In addition, the course affords an opportunity to practice applying the theories to specific literary texts.", "credits": "3"}, "LIT306": {"title": "Medieval Literature", "description": "This course will focus on literature written in England during the Old and Middle English period (approximately 500-1485 CE). We will spend about half the course on Old English literature and half on Middle English literature.", "credits": "3"}, "LIT307": {"title": "Renaissance and Restoration Literature", "description": "This course surveys British Literature from the 16th and 17th centuries, a period renowned for the variety and originality of its writers, which left a lasting mark on subsequent English literature. Students will be introduced to central ideas and writers of the English Reformation, English Revolution, and the Restoration of the monarchy. Renaissance authors studied may include More, Marlowe, Elizabeth I, Jonson, Donne, and Webster, along with Shakespeare and Spenser. Writers of the Revolution and Restoration may include Herrick, Marvell, Milton, Dryden, Behn, and Wycherly. Students will encounter Renaissance and Restoration drama, epic poetry, the sonnet, along with early experiments in prose fiction.", "credits": "3"}, "LIT309": {"title": "Romance, Revolutions, and the Birth of the Novel", "description": "This course focuses on the \"long 18th century\" in Great Britain, covering the era of the Enlightenment as well as Romanticism.  This was a tumultuous time in British history, marked by numerous political and social revolutions as well as notable literary creativity.  In this course, students will study developments in English literature such as the novel, the essay, satire, journalism, popular theater, and poetry.  Themes of the course will vary, but may include civil liberty, sexuality and gender, colonialism and abolition, the city and the country, industrialization, and the French Revolution.  Authors studied may include Congreve, Defoe, Swift, Pope, Fielding, Wordsworth, Keats, Shelley, and Byron.", "credits": "3"}, "LIT310": {"title": "Victorian Literature", "description": "Nineteenth-century Britain experienced tremendous change in politics, economics, philosophy, art and literature.  It was a century of industrialization, empire-building, new discoveries and social revolution.  This course studies representative selections from the major poets and prose writers and explores the social, political and intellectual changes reflected in the literature of the Victorian period.  Authors may include Tennyson, Browning, Barrett Browning, Dickens, Charlotte Bronte, and Wilde.", "credits": "3"}, "LIT311": {"title": "Modern British Literature", "description": "This course will explore the modernist movement in 20th century British fiction through the works of three of its most prominent practitioners - James Joyce, D.H. Lawrence, and Virginia Woolf - as well as selected works by other writers. The course will examine the birth of the modern aesthetic in literature not only as a response to the alienation and despair resulting from World War I but also as a reaction to the enormous impact made by the ideas of such thinkers as Darwin, Freud, Marx and Nietzsche. Various modernist writing techniques, including stream-of-consciousness, episodic narrative and radical experimentation with punctuation, will also be studied.", "credits": "3"}, "LIT312": {"title": "Early American Literature", "description": "While the authors and texts studied in this course may vary, the readings will cover the historical period from 1620- with the settlement of Plymouth Plantation- through the Constitutional Convention of 1787 and the early days of the new Republic. Although there may be some attention to the literature of early discovery, the emphasis will be on literary texts of major historical interest and on authors who pursued the American Dream of economic, religious, political, and artistic freedom.", "credits": "3"}, "LIT314": {"title": "American Realism and Naturalism", "description": "While the authors and texts studied in this course may vary, this course will focus on the American literature between 1865-1914, with the progression of literary culture from Romanticism to Realism and Naturalism and towards Modernism. Students will read literature by authors who were responding to radical shifts in America after the Civil War, including Reconstruction, the rise of industrialism, and the new theories of evolution. Authors may include Twain, James, Chesnutt, London Dreiser, Wharton, Cather, and Anderson, as well as poets of the early twentieth century.", "credits": "3"}, "LIT315": {"title": "Twentieth Century American Literature and Beyond", "description": "The course will explore literature by major American writers, from the early 20th century to the present. Students will read fiction, non-fiction, poetry, and plays about the major literary, cultural, and political events during the 20th century, including the wars, the Beat and counterculture movements, the Civil Rights and women's movements, and post 9/11 cultural shifts. We will proceed chronologically, beginning with poetry about World War I and ending with post-modern literature about contemporary issues such as race, religion, technology, and war.", "credits": "3"}, "LIT319": {"title": "Shakespeare", "description": "Students in LIT 319 study selected Shakespearian comedies, tragedies and chronicle plays.  The course also provides the students with a general overview of the Elizabethan era and the world in which Shakespeare lived and worked. ", "credits": "3"}, "LIT322": {"title": "Popular and Contemporary Fiction", "description": "This course will analyze today's popular and contemporary fiction. What makes a book a \"best seller\" What makes literature sell in the millions of copies Writers who strike it rich generally write books that are fast paced and easy to read, following a set of conventions that readers recognize, and touch a nerve within their society. Writers who win the hearts of the literati and schoolmarms generally try to touch that nerve also, but they do so with language and plots that are inventive, artistic, and memorable. With a focus on current and past best sellers, this course will introduce you to a variety of literary sub-genres (true crime, memoir, road novel, extreme adventure, western, roots quest). The books we will read often return to themes of individualism, race, and violence in American culture- prominent elements in our psyches, popular culture, and pulp fiction- though we will certainly discuss other themes as well.", "credits": "3"}, "LIT323": {"title": "Studies in Drama", "description": "This course will focus on drama as a literary genre, examining the origins of the genre, its literary conventions and its current productions. In reading plays that may range from the Greeks to contemporary Broadway, students will not only see the changing dynamics of the genres form, but also experience the important role the genre has played in American, British, European, and global society and culture.", "credits": "3"}, "LIT327": {"title": "Studies in Poetry", "description": "This course will focus on poetry as a literary genre. Students will learn how to interpret and evaluate poetry, exploring the elements of poetic form as well as influence poetic responses to critical moments in history. Thus, we will read landmark works by major poets, learn about major movements and schools within poetry, and look at poetry written in response to historical events. Students will also read a volume of poetry by a poet of their choice, and present information on that poets style, theme, and role within the field of poetry.", "credits": "3"}, "LIT330": {"title": "Gender and Text", "description": "This course examines gender in and through literary texts and considers the ways in which categories of sexuality, sex, race, class, ethnicity, nationality, religion, and other factors influence writers' depictions of gender. The course analyzes historical conditions relevant to gender studies, and may address social and theoretical topics such as womens suffrage, feminisms, third-world feminism, the LGBTQ community, and queer theory. The course explores these topics through the lens of literature and asks:  how is gender represented in literary texts how do literary texts not only replicate but sometimes contest or imagine new realities for gendered subjects what does it mean to write as a gendered subject Readings may include works by authors such as Mary Wollstonecraft, Oscar Wilde, Virginia Woolf, Audre Lorde, Gloria Anzalda, and Michael Cunningham.", "credits": "3"}, "LIT350": {"title": "The Black Literary Tradition", "description": "This course offers an overview of African-American literature, with glimpses into African and Caribbean literature. Beginning around 1845 with Frederick Douglass' Narrative, students will read from various literary genres, including slave narratives, poetry, short stories, fiction and plays that illuminate both the history of African America and changing ideas of race. Students will conduct ongoing independent research, which they will present to the class, on the major literacy and historical periods we cover, including the Harlem Renaissance in the 1920s and early 1930s, the civil rights movement(s), the Black Arts movement of the 1960s and early 1970s and the decades following. Reading works by Booker T. Washington, W.E.B. Dubois, Zora Neale Thurston, Ralph Ellison, Gwendolyn Brooks, Chinua Achebe, Toni Morrison and Ishmael Reed, among others, will enable us to analyze how sexuality, gender, class and nationality influence various writers' definitions of race and ethnicity. ", "credits": "3"}, "LIT450": {"title": "Seminar in American Literature", "description": "This course uses a thematic approach to explore works by American writers. The specific selections and authors vary each term according to the theme. This is an upper-level course involving close reading, analysis and writing in seminar format. Writing Intensive Course.", "credits": "3"}, "LIT451": {"title": "Seminar in British Literature", "description": "This course uses a thematic approach to explore works of British writers.  The specific selections and authors vary each term according to the theme.  This is an upper-level course involving close reading, analysis and writing in seminar format. ", "credits": "3"}, "LIT452": {"title": "Seminar in Global Literature", "description": "This course uses a thematic approach to explore works from any of the major literary traditions outside the British and American. The specific selections and authors vary each term according to the theme. This is an upper-level course involving close reading, analysis and writing in seminar format.", "credits": "3"}, "LIT485": {"title": "Senior Thesis in Literature", "description": "This course is an option for seniors of exceptional ability who are majoring in English language and literature and who wish to have a graduate-level research and writing experience in some chosen area of American, British or world literature. Students must petition to take the course.  The following requirements are for undergraduate day campus students. Students who receive permission from the area coordinator/department chair and their academic advisors must proceed to formulate a written thesis proposal and assemble a three-person academic support committee, equipped with relevant expertise, no later than March 30th of the junior year. The proposal will then be submitted for approval to the individual's advisory committee. Assuming the project is universally approved, the student will meet with one or more members of the committee on a biweekly basis to review progress on research and written work. The final result will be a scholarly essay of 40 to 60 pages, to be presented as an academic paper in a public forum at least three weeks before graduation. Offered on an ongoing basis, as this is a yearlong course option.  The following requirements are for undergraduate COCE students: Students who receive permission from their academic advisors must proceed to formulate a written thesis proposal to be submitted for approval to the selected instructor. If the project is approved, the student will collaborate with the instructor in the online course to review progress on research and written work. The final result will be a scholarly essay of 40 to 60 pages, to be presented to the instructor as a cohesive and polished academic paper with a supplemental essay that outlines plans to present/publish the paper after the course is complete. Offered on an ongoing basis, as this is, at a minimum, a two-term research and writing project.  ", "credits": "3"}, "LIT485A": {"title": "Senior Thesis in Literature", "description": "This course is an option for seniors of exceptional ability who are majoring in English language and literature and who wish to have a graduate-level research and writing experience in some chosen area of American, British or world literature. Students must petition to take the course.  The following requirements are for undergraduate day campus students. Students who receive permission from the area coordinator/department chair and their academic advisors must proceed to formulate a written thesis proposal and assemble a three-person academic support committee, equipped with relevant expertise, no later than March 30th of the junior year. The proposal will then be submitted for approval to the individual's advisory committee. Assuming the project is universally approved, the student will meet with one or more members of the committee on a biweekly basis to review progress on research and written work. The final result will be a scholarly essay of 40 to 60 pages, to be presented as an academic paper in a public forum at least three weeks before graduation. Offered on an ongoing basis, as this is a yearlong course option.  The following requirements are for undergraduate COCE students: Students who receive permission from their academic advisors must proceed to formulate a written thesis proposal to be submitted for approval to the selected instructor. If the project is approved, the student will collaborate with the instructor in the online course to review progress on research and written work. The final result will be a scholarly essay of 40 to 60 pages, to be presented to the instructor as a cohesive and polished academic paper with a supplemental essay that outlines plans to present/publish the paper after the course is complete. Offered on an ongoing basis, as this is, at a minimum, a two-term research and writing project.  ", "credits": "3"}, "LIT485B": {"title": "Senior Thesis in Literature", "description": "This course is an option for seniors of exceptional ability who are majoring in English language and literature and who wish to have a graduate-level research and writing experience in some chosen area of American, British or world literature. Students must petition to take the course.  The following requirements are for undergraduate day campus students. Students who receive permission from the area coordinator/department chair and their academic advisors must proceed to formulate a written thesis proposal and assemble a three-person academic support committee, equipped with relevant expertise, no later than March 30th of the junior year. The proposal will then be submitted for approval to the individual's advisory committee. Assuming the project is universally approved, the student will meet with one or more members of the committee on a biweekly basis to review progress on research and written work. The final result will be a scholarly essay of 40 to 60 pages, to be presented as an academic paper in a public forum at least three weeks before graduation. Offered on an ongoing basis, as this is a yearlong course option.  The following requirements are for undergraduate COCE students: Students who receive permission from their academic advisors must proceed to formulate a written thesis proposal to be submitted for approval to the selected instructor. If the project is approved, the student will collaborate with the instructor in the online course to review progress on research and written work. The final result will be a scholarly essay of 40 to 60 pages, to be presented to the instructor as a cohesive and polished academic paper with a supplemental essay that outlines plans to present/publish the paper after the course is complete. Offered on an ongoing basis, as this is, at a minimum, a two-term research and writing project.  ", "credits": "3"}, "LIT500": {"title": "Graduate Studies in Literary Theory", "description": "This course is an introduction to the major schools of contemporary literary theory, and an examination of principal exponents of these theories. The student will become familiar with the most important features of psychoanalytic criticism, Marxism and feminism and examine the meaning of structuralism and post-structuralism. In addition, the course affords an opportunity to practice applying the theories to specific literary texts.", "credits": "3"}, "LIT502": {"title": "Topics in American Literature", "description": "This course traces the development of American literature from the nation's founding to the late Twentieth Century. Readings may include classics by Bradford, Bradstreet, Wheatly, Crevecoeur, Emerson, Thoreau, Dickinson, Hawthorne, Whitman, Melville, Douglass, James, Crane, Chopin, Gilman, Fitzgerald, Faulkner, Hurston, O'Connor, Pynchon, Major, Morrison, Cisneros, and Alexie among others. Different authors are highlighted in each term, and all readings are situated within specific historical, cultural, philosophical, political, and literary contexts.", "credits": "3"}, "LIT503": {"title": "Topics in British Literature", "description": "This course examines major prose and poetry of English writers from the Anglo-Saxon period to the late Twentieth Century. Readings may include classics by Chaucer, Spencer, Milton, Shakespeare, Wollstonecraft, Wordsworth, Keats, Shelley, Tennyson, Eliot, Bronte, Browning, Hardy, Woolf, Barnes, Barry, and Mieville among others. Different authors are highlighted in each term, and all readings are situated within specific historical, cultural, philosophical, political, and literary contexts.", "credits": "3"}, "LIT506": {"title": "Graduate Studies in Medieval Literature", "description": "This course will focus on literature written in England during the Old and Middle English period (approximately 500-1485 CE). We will spend about half the course on Old English literature and half on Middle English literature.", "credits": "3"}, "LIT507": {"title": "Graduate Studies in Renaissance and Restoration Literature", "description": "This course surveys British Literature from the 16th and 17th centuries, a period renowned for the variety and originality of its writers, which left a lasting mark on subsequent English literature. Students will be introduced to central ideas and writers of the English Reformation, English Revolution, and the Restoration of the monarchy. Renaissance authors studied may include More, Marlowe, Elizabeth I, Jonson, Donne, and Webster, along with Shakespeare and Spenser. Writers of the Revolution and Restoration may include Herrick, Marvell, Milton, Dryden, Behn, and Wycherley. Students will encounter Renaissance and Restoration drama, epic poetry, the sonnet, along with early experiments in prose fiction.", "credits": "3"}, "LIT508": {"title": "Graduate Studies in 18th Century British Literature", "description": "This course surveys the literature of the 'long 18th century,' from the Restoration to the beginning of Romanticism, and studies developments in English literature such as the novel, the essay, satire, journalism, and popular theatre. Authors studied may include Congreve, Defoe, Swift, Pope, Johnson, Fielding, Smollett, and Austen. This course may also cover developments in the visual arts. Themes of the course will vary, but may include civil liberty, sexuality and gender, colonialism, city and country, and the enlightenment movement.", "credits": "3"}, "LIT509": {"title": "Graduate Studies in Romantic Literature", "description": "The Romantic Era in Britain, while short, was an intense and influential literary period. In this course we will read poetry, fiction, and nonfiction responding to shaping events such as the French Revolution and its aftermath, the British abolition of slavery, and industrialization. We will read authors such as Wordsworth, Keats, Austen, Blake, Wollstonecraft, Shelley, and Byron.", "credits": "3"}, "LIT510": {"title": "Graduate Studies in Victorian Literature", "description": "Nineteenth-century Britain experienced tremendous change in politics, economics, philosophy, art and literature. It was a century of industrialization, empire-building, new discoveries, and social revolution. This course studies representative selections from major poets and prose writers, and explores the social, political, and intellectual changes reflected in the literature of the Victorian period. Authors may include Alfred, Lord Tennyson, Browning, Barrett Browning, Dickens, Charlotte Bronte, and Wilde.", "credits": "3"}, "LIT511": {"title": "Graduate Studies in Modern British Literature", "description": "This course will explore the modernist movement in 20th century British fiction through the works of three of its most prominent practitioners James Joyce, D.H. Lawrence, and Virginia Woolf, as well as selected works by other writers. The course will examine the birth of the modern aesthetic in literature not only as a response to the alienation and despair resulting from World War I but also as a reaction to the enormous impact made by the ideas of such thinkers as Darwin, Freud, Marx and Nietzsche. Various modernist writing techniques, including stream-of-consciousness, episodic narrative and radical experimentation with punctuation, will also be studied.", "credits": "3"}, "LIT512": {"title": "Graduate Studies in Early American Literature", "description": "While the authors and texts studied in the course may vary, the readings will cover the historical period from 1620, with the settlement of Plymouth Plantation, through the Constitutional Convention of 1787 and the early days of the new Republic. Although there may be some attention to the literature of early discovery, the emphasis will be on literary texts of major historical interest and on authors who pursued the American Dream of economic, religious, political and artistic freedom.", "credits": "3"}, "LIT513": {"title": "Graduate Studies in the American Renaissance", "description": "While the authors and texts studied in the course may vary, this course examines literature from the early 1800s to 1865, the conclusion of the Civil War. During this period, American literature developed a home-grown Romanticism influenced by European intellectual and aesthetic movements, as well as a new cultural sensibility of its own. Authors may include Irving, Poe, Hawthorne, Emerson, Thoreau, Melville, Douglass, Dickinson, and the latter-day transcendentalism of Whitman.", "credits": "3"}, "LIT514": {"title": "Graduate Studies in American Realism and Naturalism", "description": "While the authors and texts studied in this course may vary, this course will focus on the American literature between 1865-1914, with the progression of literary culture from Romanticism to Realism and Naturalism towards Modernism. Students will read literature by authors who were responding to radical shifts in America after the Civil War, including Reconstruction, the rise of industrialism, and the new theories of evolution. Authors may include Twain, James, Chesnutt, London, Dreiser, Wharton, Cather, and Anderson, as well as poets of the early twentieth century.", "credits": "3"}, "LIT515": {"title": "Graduate Studies in 20th Century American Literature", "description": "This course will explore literature by major American writers, from the early 20th century to the present. Students will read fiction, non-fiction, poetry, and plays about the major literary, cultural, and political events during the 20th century, including the wars, the Beat and counterculture movements, the Civil Rights and women's movements, and post 9/11 cultural shifts. We will proceed chronologically, beginning with poetry about World War I and ending with post-modern literature about contemporary issues such as race, religion, technology, and war.", "credits": "3"}, "LIT519": {"title": "Graduate Studies in Shakespeare", "description": "Students will study selected Shakespearian comedies, tragedies and chronicle plays. The course also provides the students with a general overview of the Elizabethan era and the world in which Shakespeare lived and worked.", "credits": "3"}, "LIT528": {"title": "Graduate Studies in Multi-Ethnic Literature", "description": "Since the beginnings of American literature, writers have been concerned with defining and creating American identity through their art. Since the 1960s, during and after the Civil Rights movement, numerous writers have defined their American identity in relation to specific ethnic identities, writing works that explore how dual or multiple cultural identities coexist within themselves and within American culture, sorting through the stories they've heard and created about who they are. In this course, we will read fiction, poetry, and essays by twentieth-century American authors who identify with African American, Native American, Asian American, Jewish, Latino and Chicano heritages. In addition to race and ethnicity, we will discuss how class, native language, religion, gender, sexuality, and history figure into these writers' images of an American self and community.", "credits": "3"}, "LIT530": {"title": "Graduate Studies in Gender and Text", "description": "This course explores a variety of texts written since 1945 by women, including authors such as Toni Morrison, Lorraine Hansberry, Marilynne Robinson and Adrienne Rich. Students will analyze how race, sexuality, class, nationality, motherhood and other factors influence writers' notions of gender. In addition to immersing students in contemporary women's literature, this course aims to provide students with a window into the history, politics and culture of post-1945 America, a period which saw the Cold War, the 'second wave' and the 'third wave' of American feminism, as well as the in intellectual theories that helped illuminate literature about gender past and present.", "credits": "3"}, "LIT545": {"title": "Graduate Studies Postcolonial Encounters", "description": "Postcolonial Encounters focuses on the interdisciplinary aspects of literatures that have been historically silenced by the mechanisms of the colonial powers. This course will attempt to retrieve from the margins those voices that Gayatri Spivak (following Antonio Gramsci) has called 'subaltern.' As such, our task will be to theorize the notions of power and powerlessness, margin an periphery, first and third world, nationality, race, identity, and globalization via the close readings of various postcolonial texts.", "credits": "3"}, "LIT550": {"title": "Graduate Studies in the Black Literary Tradition", "description": "This course offers an overview of African-American literature, with glimpses into African and Caribbean literature. Beginning around 1845 with Frederick Douglass' Narrative, students will read from various literary genres, including slave narratives, poetry, short stories, fiction and plays that illuminate both the history of African America and changing ideas of race. Students will conduct ongoing independent research, which they will present to the class, on the major literacy and historical periods we cover, including the Harlem Renaissance in the 1920s and early 1930s, the civil rights movement(s), the Black Arts movement of the 1960s and early 1970s and the decades following. Reading works by  Booker T. Washington, W.E.B. Dubois, Zora Neale Hurston, Ralph Ellison, Gwendolyn Brooks, Chinua Achebe, Toni Morrison, and Ishmael Reed, among others, will enable us to analyze how sexuality, gender, class and nationality influence various writers' definitions of race and ethnicity.", "credits": "3"}, "LIT555": {"title": "American Modernism", "description": "Using a thematic approach, this course explores important aspects of literary modernism as it pertains to the American historical, social, technological, intellectual, and political experience between the end of World War I and the 1950s. The course immerses students in modernism via fiction, poetry, and critical essays by major American authors and poets of the period. It also asks students to identify and articulate the relationship between race, gender, regional perspectives, and ethnicity in the context of modernist American literature.", "credits": "3"}, "LIT650": {"title": "Graduate Seminar in American Literature", "description": "This course uses a thematic approach to explore works by American writers.  The specific selections and authors vary each term according to the theme. This is an upper-level course involving close reading, analysis and writing in seminar format.", "credits": "3"}, "LIT651": {"title": "Graduate Seminar in British Literature", "description": "This course uses a thematic approach to explore works of British writers.  The specific selections and authors vary each term according to the theme. This is an upper-level course involving close reading, analysis and writing in a seminar format.", "credits": "3"}, "LIT652": {"title": "Graduate Seminar in Global Literature", "description": "This course uses a thematic approach to the works from many literary traditions outside British and American.  Specific selections and authors vary each term according to the theme.  This is an upper-level course involving close reading, analysis and writing in seminar format.", "credits": "3"}, "LIT690": {"title": "Master of Arts in English Capstone", "description": "Students register for this course in their final term, as a culmination of their work in the program. They satisfy the requirement by completing a thesis, submitting a portfolio of their literary-critical writing along with a retrospective evaluative essay, or passing an examination on English and American Literature.", "credits": "3"}}, "Management": {"MGT320": {"title": "Business Sustainability", "description": "As a fundamental principle of smart management, business sustainability will be examined as an organizational imperative. This course will examine how to shape, implement, and manage a sustainability strategy in consideration of business practices, stakeholder engagement, culture, and accountability.", "credits": "3"}, "MGT480": {"title": "Sustainability Business Strategy Capstone", "description": "This capstone course is the culminating experience for the B.S. in Management program. The aim of the capstone is to assess students' ability to synthesize and integrate the knowledge and skills they have developed throughout their coursework, rather than introducing new concepts. This course is structured to support student success in fulfilling program requirements.", "credits": "3"}, "MGT510": {"title": "Cultivating Organizational Culture", "description": "Business leaders are responsible for cultivating, maintaining, and fostering an organizational culture that accurately represents the organization internally and externally, encourages and supports people, and holds organizational members accountable to the vision, mission, and goals of a business. This course provides students with the skills, theories, and practices necessary to identify a strong culture that permeates the ethics, decision-making, and behaviors of the organization. Students will work through advanced cases and apply these experiences to their own learning and organizations.", "credits": "3"}, "MGT550": {"title": "Managing Through Communication", "description": "Learn how to manage people and organizations effectively using communication as a tool. Enhance  skills and techniques in motivating, leading change, developing relationships and team building through effective communication of core visions, active listening and providing feedback. Develop strategic management and communication skills that positively affect stakeholder behavior. Gain comprehensive, hands-on-experience in constructing documents and presentations that inform, persuade and influence the intended audience to achieve strategic goals.", "credits": "3"}, "MGT600": {"title": "Resource Planning and Decision Making", "description": "This course serves as an advanced exploration into ill-structured situations requiring strategic plans and effective resource management. Students are asked to develop strategies around personnel management, budget allocation, performance metrics, and goal setting. This course prepares students for the advanced concentration courses in their area and serves as a precursor to the integrated capstone experience.", "credits": "3"}, "MGT605": {"title": "Construction Budgeting, Estimating & Bidding", "description": "This course examines budgeting, estimating, and bidding strategies for various types and sizes of construction projects. Using a project-based approached, students are exposed to project budgetary considerations; conceptual, rough order magnitude, and definitive estimating; pricing for equipment, labor, and materials; bid preparation and strategies; and conducting a competitive analysis. Students completing this course are prepared to create budgets, estimates, and bid proposals for any type of construction project.", "credits": "3"}, "MGT610": {"title": "Construction Materials & Methods", "description": "This course explores the different facets of construction materials and methods. Using a case study approach, students analyze the construction process, including work methods, techniques, and strategies; methods of equipment selection; reading and interpreting plans and specifications; and material specifications. Additional topics include the procurement of materials, codes, and regulations. Students completing this course obtain the skillsets applicable to real\u2010world construction projects.", "credits": "3"}, "MGT615": {"title": "Construction Law and Contracts", "description": "This course examines legal aspects of the construction industry, including interpretation of the law, contract administration, and risk management. Using a case study approach, students analyze cases to apply legal concepts and principles, interpret the law, and determine the performance and flexibility of contracts. Additional topics include ethics, dispute resolution, liability, labor laws, insurance, and bonds.  Students completing this course are exposed to pertinent laws and contractual requirements and limitations associated with construction management.", "credits": "3"}, "MGT620": {"title": "Principles of Emergency Management", "description": "This course examines the nation's emergency management system at all levels of government. Using exemplars and anti-exemplars, students will study how the system works to prevent disasters that are preventable, and how it works to mitigate the consequences of those disasters that are not. The National Incident Management System and the National Preparedness System will be studied and emphasized. Topics will include: communications, leadership, disaster management methods and program building models, the all-hazards concept and analysis, community resiliency, the whole-community concept, and the five national frameworks (Prevention, Protection, Mitigation, Response and Recovery) under the National Preparedness System. Students who complete this course will have a comprehensive understanding of the nation's emergency management system, and of how communities mitigate against, respond to, and recover from all disaster events.", "credits": "3"}, "MGT622": {"title": "Emergency Planning and Preparedness", "description": "This course uses real-world disaster planning strategies and structures to prepare students for roles encompassing the construction of community or organizational disaster-preparedness programs. Various types of threats and hazards to communities and organizations will be studied. Using a scenario-based approach, students will examine existing real-world planning strategies intended to prevent or mitigate the consequences of a disaster event on communities. Students will use the latest guidelines and strategies from the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). Emphasis is on assessing risk, threats, and vulnerabilities to safeguard against disaster incidents. Emphasis will be on using FEMA systems and tools to assess and construct community disaster preparedness plans. Topics include: all aspects of the all hazards analysis, proper emergency management program building, including the use of community working groups, The National Preparedness System, the National Incident Management System, resilience planning, the whole community concept, the construction of community emergency management plans with FEMA standards, and roles and responsibilities of local, state, and federal government. Students who have completed this course will be well-prepared to plan and prepare for different types of emergencies, using the same FEMA guidelines and tools for disaster planning and program building currently in use by emergency managers throughout the county.", "credits": "3"}, "MGT625": {"title": "Disaster Response and Recovery", "description": "The course explores issues and challenges in disaster response and recovery, including evacuation or relocation in the aftermath of a crisis. Using a case-study approach, students analyze real-world critical incidents requiring fast response measures and recovery support and determine the degree of success, in part, on the coordination and cooperation of various departments and agencies. Topics include National Response Framework (NRF), National Disaster Recovery Framework (NDRF), resource management, stakeholders, infrastructure, leadership, communication, and mitigation activities. Students completing the course have a broad view of a response and recovery mission from beginning to end.", "credits": "3"}, "MGT628": {"title": "Applied Emergency Management", "description": "The course dissects various types of crises within communities, organizations, and governmental agencies. Using a scenario-based approach, students differentiate between the types of crises and develop a systematic response to a critical incident using emergency management planning and preparedness strategies as well as analyzing the crisis in relation to FEMA and NIMS guidelines. Topics include FEMA's Continuity of Operations. Students completing the course have a thorough understanding of the level of preparation in developing an emergency management plan from the planning stages into the final phase of recovery.", "credits": "3"}, "MGT630": {"title": "Construction Quality Management and Productivity", "description": "This course focuses on quality management and productivity levels of construction projects. Students analyze real-world cases to evaluate techniques, tools, and practices in implementing and monitoring quality control processes as well as equipment management to include managing and quantifying labor and equipment productivity. Additional topics include scheduling, cost and cost control measures, safety, risk management, and quality measurements. Students completing this course recognize the relationship between quality and productivity.", "credits": "3"}, "MGT700": {"title": "Critical Issues in Management Capstone", "description": "The Capstone Project engages students on a project of significant importance that is a current problem or initiative for a health care organization. This capstone course serves as a vehicle for the student to demonstrate the knowledge, skills, attitudes, and behaviors consistent with the best practices in management of organizations.  Working as part of a small team (similar to the executive teams that manage health care organizations), you are responsible for all aspects of the project, including: diagnosing the critical challenge, defining an appropriate scope of work, managing institutional expectations, producing an appropriate recommendation to meet the challenge,  and presenting the project to the course room mentor. Completion of MSM core curriculum at GPA 3.0 or better", "credits": "3"}, "MGT701": {"title": "Critical Issues in Management Capstone", "description": "This capstone course is the culminating experience for the M.S. in Management program. The aim of the capstone is to assess students\u2019 ability to synthesize and integrate the knowledge and skills they have developed throughout their coursework, rather than introducing new concepts. This course is structured to support student success in fulfilling program requirements.", "credits": "3"}}, "Management Information Systems": {"MIS215": {"title": "Client Systems and Support", "description": "Learn the basics of systems analysis of client systems through the lens of a business analyst. Explore common client systems within an organization, the basic architecture of the overall system, the flow of information within the system, and informed decision making as well as the importance of eCommerce for a client system.", "credits": "3"}, "MIS300": {"title": "Enterprise Information Systems/Database", "description": "Investigate the flow and structure of data within an enterprise computer based environment. Learn to mine, compile and analyze data from client systems using appropriate tools and techniques in response to senior management inquiries. ", "credits": "3"}, "MIS320": {"title": "Electronic Business", "description": "Explore aspects of an organization's electronic interactions with its stakeholders. Key topics in this course include: e-business strategy, business models, cyber services, e-business relationships, and e-marketing and e-payment.", "credits": "3"}, "MIS350": {"title": "Business Intelligence and Reporting", "description": "Learn about business intelligence tools and techniques for creating reports, and apply these techniques in making data centered decisions. Recommend solutions to business problems that address business needs and requirements through utilizing data visualization tools.", "credits": "3"}, "MIS490": {"title": "Management Information Systems Capstone", "description": "This capstone course is the culminating experience for the Management Information Systems program. The aim of the capstone is to assess students' ability to synthesize and integrate the knowledge and skills they have developed throughout their coursework, rather than introducing new concepts. This course is structured to support student success in fulfilling program requirements.", "credits": "3"}}, "Marketing": {"MKT113": {"title": "Introduction to Marketing", "description": "This course examines the organization's functions for creating, communicating, and delivering value to customers. These functions, designed to meet customers' needs and organizational goals, include marketing research, environmental monitoring, target market selection, product selection, promotion, distribution and pricing.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Principles of Marketing"}, "MKT222": {"title": "Principles of Retailing", "description": "This course studies the basics of retailing and emphasizes the development of retail institutions, store layout and design, merchandising, pricing and problems  retailers experience in today's business environment.  ", "credits": "3"}, "MKT228": {"title": "Technology in Fashion and Retailing", "description": "This course addresses web-based fashion and retailing business issues. On the one hand it explores the influence of technology on fashion products development. On the other hand it explores the role that technology plays at various levels of the retail business including supply chain development, retail channel management and consumer shopping experience.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT229": {"title": "Principles of Integrated Marketing Communications", "description": "This course is designed to give students an understanding of advertising, public relations, corporate communications and sales promotions and the role that the media plays in integrated marketing communications strategies. This course focuses on the planning, research and creative skills needed to reach IMC objectives. Writing intensive course.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT230": {"title": "Retail Sales Promotion", "description": "This course focuses on sales promotion in the retail sector. The specific needs of retailers in the areas of advertising, visual merchandising, personal selling, and special events planning are among the topics addressed. The culminating project will be a sales promotion plan that will include a major special event. This project is designed to be flexible to support the range of retailing interests represented in the class.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT231": {"title": "Visual Merchandising", "description": "Retail marketing is a highly charged, highly competitive component of the marketing discipline. Consumers everywhere and of every age and economic category, are well informed by internet sources. Driven by access and awareness, they are looking to be courted and enticed to buy one merchant's goods over another. Visual merchandising is the art and business of creating such attraction, using merchandise that is color coordinated, accessorized, sparkling, exciting, and causing shoppers to stop, take a closer look, and buy. Visual merchandising is retail theater at its best, complete with costumes, props, and sets. Like all marketing, however, visual merchandising has a clear purpose - sales- and therefore is strategic in nature, a component of a larger marketing picture. This course addresses the creative and strategic nature of visual merchandising, connecting students with both the flair and fancy of visual merchandising and the nitty-gritty of strategic planning, and clarifying the connection between them.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT265": {"title": "Social Media & Marketing Communications", "description": "This course is designed to give students an understanding of the concepts involved in integrated marketing communication (IMC) which includes a focus on social media and the role they play in advertising, public relations, branding, and corporate communication strategies. This course focuses on the planning, research and creative skills needed to reach promotional objectives.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT266": {"title": "Services Marketing", "description": "Given the substantial shift in emphasis from a base in manufactured goods to a domestic economy based in services, as well as the interconnectedness of the global economy, comprehension of the service aspect of business is a necessity for every marketer, in every company, in every industry.  Therefore, an understanding of the unique requirements of marketing services or service components has become a basic marketing skill.  This course presents key concepts in the marketing of services through readings in current business publications and experiential opportunities.  It addresses the global perspective of services, and both B2B and consumer service dimensions.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT270": {"title": "Professional Selling", "description": "Selling is a real life skill that everyone uses every day no matter what the profession. The role of professional salespeople is to uncover the needs and wants of buyers in order to develop value-added relationships. This role is vital to the marketer as it entails creating value for and communicating value to the customer which positively impacts the success of an organization's marketing strategy.  This introductory selling course focuses on the basic sales skills and tools necessary to become a successful professional salesperson. Although the topic of business-to-consumer (B2C) sales is addressed, the emphasis is placed on business-to-business (B2B) sales, the sales process and sales methodology.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT311": {"title": "Mobile Marketing", "description": "Explore mobile marketing channels and gain exposure to the different mobile strategies companies are using. Analyze the different mobile channels available to companies and how companies are using mobile strategies as part of their marketing strategies.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT315": {"title": "SEO vs. SEM", "description": "Explore Search Engine Optimization (SEO) and Search Engine Marketing (SEM) strategies with a specific focus on understanding the difference between organic and paid leads and traffic. Gain familiarity with web analytics services such as Google Analytics.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT320": {"title": "Sales Force Management", "description": "Effective management of sales people directly impacts the success of a marketing strategy and of the company in general. Consequently, it is imperative that sales managers develop the basic competencies to effectively manage and lead a business-to-business (B2B) sales force in order to meet the overall goals of the organization.  This course enables students to develop these valuable competencies as well as business-related decision making skills in the areas of a successful sales force program.  Emphasis is placed on sales potential and forecasting, sales force investment and budget, ethical and legal issues, emotional intelligence, account relationship strategies, recruitment, training, motivation, and compensation.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT322": {"title": "International Retailing", "description": "This course compares and contrasts retail institutions in selected countries. Students examine the social, economic and political influences on the development of global retailers and consider how retailing trends spread from culture to culture. Students also examine the similarities and differences in merchandising, sales promotion, pricing, personal selling and electronic retailing policies of retailers around the globe. This course is cross-listed with INT 322.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT326": {"title": "Global Consumer Culture", "description": "Every day, everywhere in the world, people make decisions about what to wear and how to wear it. Daily dressing is about much more than clothing. It includes making choices of clothing, accessories and grooming. Its relationship to human nature is at once biological, social and aesthetic. As cultures and geography changes around the world, so too do the representations of that relationship become more diverse. Dressing thus represents a broad swath of widely differing actions and decisions. This course studies the way consumers worldwide choose their dress forms to represent who and what they are, and how they wish to express themselves those around them. It considers both commonalities and differences in global consumer cultures of dress.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT335": {"title": "Digital Advertising", "description": "Examine the digital advertising landscape with a focus on the different types of digital and online advertising, including search-advertising strategies, social media marketing, and inbound marketing.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT337": {"title": "Marketing Research", "description": "This course compares and contrasts secondary and primary research with emphasis on the latter. Students explore different types of primary research as well as the basic research methods. It focuses primarily on the survey.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT345": {"title": "Consumer Behavior", "description": "This course explores the behavior that consumers display in searching, purchasing, using, evaluating and disposing of products.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT355": {"title": "Social Media Marketing Strategy", "description": "This course will develop the students' ability to effectively and successfully create, and implement a social media marketing campaign and evaluate as well as measure its success. Intensive skill building will be placed on creating, applying and integrating the appropriate social media tool that will enable marketers to build high-value relationships with their constituencies. The course will focus on key elements such as determining and matching social media tactics with the appropriate target market and developing strategies to engage those markets using relevant social media channels.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT360": {"title": "Direct Marketing", "description": "This course explores the directing of goods and services through the consumer or business-to-business marketing channels where the desired consumer resources may be direct orders, lead generation and/or traffic generation.  This course focuses on such topics as mailing list development, relationship marketing, database management, the development of an effective sales message and selection of media. The use of catalogs, direct mail letters and brochures, telemarketing and electronic marketing as ways to reach the consumer will be explored.                  ", "credits": "3"}, "MKT378": {"title": "Brand Communications", "description": "A strong brand brings a competitive advantage to a company, and building and maintaining a brand is a critical task for marketers. Identifying potential brand salience, performance and image creation and brand resonance when creating a brand, and as branding activities change over the life of a brand in response to changes in the expectations of consumers, and to the competitive conditions in the marketplace, is at the core of this course. It exposes students to the process of designing a brand, targeting a brand, and delivering a brand message through a range of media and marketing communication programs throughout the life of the brand.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT400": {"title": "Strategic Brand Management", "description": "Examine the importance of a company\u2019s brand with a focus on the approaches to building, maintaining, growing, and salvaging a brand.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT410": {"title": "Digital Analytics", "description": "Gain an overview of the different digital analytic tools being used by marketers to evaluate and measure their digital strategies. Focus on exploring online advertising metrics, social media analytics and other approaches to digital marketing measurement.  ", "credits": "3"}, "MKT432": {"title": "Strategic Marketing Planning (Capstone)", "description": "This is the capstone course of the undergraduate marketing curriculum.  It focuses primarily on the decisions required of marketing executives as they seek to develop, implement and control integrated marketing programs.  Students will be asked to apply their understanding of marketing principles covered in other marketing courses to solve specific company problems.  Topics include a diversity of product, market and industry environments.  Writing Intensive Course.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT433": {"title": "Multinational Marketing", "description": "This course explores the development of international marketing programs from the determination of objectives and methods of organization through the execution of research, advertising, distribution and production activities.  Students examine the international similarities and differences in marketing functions as related to the cultural, economic, political, social and physical dimensions of the environment. Students also consider the changes in marketing systems and the adoption of marketing philosophies and practices to fill conditions in different countries.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT442": {"title": "Retail Management", "description": "An advanced course that moves beyond the scope of MKT 222, this course is geared to the retailing major. Store operations, human relations, information technologies, shopping center management, merchandising policies and industry trend analysis are covered. Guest speakers and study tours to retail companies are included. Writing intensive course.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT455": {"title": "Social Media Campaign", "description": "This course will develop the students' ability to effectively and successfully create and implement a social media marketing campaign and evaluate as well as measure its success.  Intensive skill building will be placed on creating, applying and integrating the appropriate social media tools to meet the marketing objectives of the organization. The course will focus on key elements such as,  a) audience, b) campaign objectives, c) strategic plan, d) tactics, e) tools, and f) metrics to measure the campaign.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT469": {"title": "Emerging Trends in Retailing (Capstone)", "description": "This capstone course covers the emerging trends and issues that affect retail strategies, management and operations. Students will engage in collaborative research to explore those issues. Speakers and retail experts in the areas of Real Estate, Retail Site Location, Asset Protection, Legal Issues, Information Technology and Global Sourcing will address the class.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT490": {"title": "Marketing Internship", "description": "The primary goal of the internship experience is to expose students to actual practices in the world of work outside of the classroom, to relate this experience to academic course work and to synthesize the two in a practical application of knowledge in an experiential setting.  Secondarily, internships offer the opportunity to develop crucial job searching skills, explore career interests, enhance your resume, make contacts in your chosen field and build references for future employment. Each intern will work in a career-related position during the academic term for which the student is enrolled for the internship - fall, spring or summer - completing a minimum of 150 hours on the job per 3 credits. Students can complete 0-15 hours of MKT 490 credit. ", "credits": "0 - 15"}, "MKT500": {"title": "Marketing Strategies", "description": "This course is a study of the activity by which organizations discover consumer and other organizations' needs and wants, and then provide satisfaction through a mutually beneficial relationship. Students will explore the topics of selecting a target market, conducting marketing research, and designing product, price, promotional, and distribution strategies through the development of a marketing plan.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT535": {"title": "Market Quantitative Analysis", "description": "The role of marketing researchers is to establish a bridge between an organization internal resources and the external factors of the market in order to achieve consumer satisfaction. Existing data are available to understand consumers' attitude and predict their behaviors toward products and services. The objective of this course is to introduce students to techniques that allow them to analyze market data. Students will explore market segmentation, forecasting and comparison techniques including cluster analysis, data mining, multiple regression, and analysis of variance.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT555": {"title": "Social Media Marketing", "description": "Explore possibilities and limitations of contemporary social media platforms and tools. Construct and evaluate social media content, its impact, and practical use in marketing context. Analyze general strategic uses of social media for advertising, marketing, public relations, journalism, and civic and political participation. Gain hands-on experience with several forms of the most current social media technology.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT605": {"title": "Integrated Marketing Communications", "description": "This course is concerned with the development, evaluation, and implementation of integrated marketing communication strategies in complex environments. The course deals primarily with an in-depth analysis of a variety of concepts, theories, facts and analytical procedures, techniques and models in topics that include various communication functions, media alternatives and the integrated marketing communication concept.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT609": {"title": "Advertising and Public Relations", "description": "This course is concerned with the development, evaluation, and implementation of advertising and public relations strategies in complex environments. The course deals primarily with an in-depth analysis of a variety of concepts, theories, facts and analytical procedures. Management of integrated advertising and public relation communication strategies are described in topics that include various communication functions, media alternatives and branding initiatives.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT610": {"title": "Promotions Management", "description": "This course addresses the specific activities involved in managing an advertising campaign, including research, media selection, copywriting, layouts and the role of ad agencies.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT615": {"title": "Relationship Selling Strategies", "description": "This course allows students the ability to become familiar with the selling environment.  A decision making perspective is accomplished through a modular format that consists of the discussion and analysis of basic concepts, identifying critical decision areas and presenting analytical approaches for improved professional selling and sales management initiatives as they apply to customer satisfaction strategies.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT618": {"title": "Marketing Analytics", "description": "This course will look at a number of quantitative tools and techniques and their application in a marketing context. The course will focus on understanding the relationship among marketing factors, variables, and the consumer. Students will learn how to analyze data in order to guide and support marketing related decisions.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT620": {"title": "Consumer Behavior and Marketing", "description": "This course focuses on the market's consumer behavior by investigating its psychological, sociological, economic, and anthropological influences, both theoretical and research based. Designing effective marketing strategies will be explored using the knowledge of these influences. ", "credits": "3"}, "MKT625": {"title": "Strategic Internet Marketing", "description": "This course will introduce students to the Internet marketing landscape. Through exploring platforms, players and technology, the students will have a better understanding of the business models used in online marketing. Understanding consumer behavior in an online environment will help in creating integrated online strategies. All these, together with theories of online campaign development and management, with a hands-on approach to marketing automation and intelligence will provide the frame work for a comprehensive understanding of strategic internet marketing.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT630": {"title": "Market Research", "description": "This course addresses the identification of the value of research and the problem to be resolved. Numerous mathematical analysis techniques and research design issues are incorporated.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT635": {"title": "Websites and Search Engine Marketing/ Search Engine Optimization", "description": "Differentiate between search engine marketing (SEM) and search engine optimization (SEO). Analyze the benefits and limitations of SEM and SEO strategies and explain how marketers can use these tools for effectively reaching customers. Employ SEO tactics to develop marketing initiatives and recommend SEM strategies to optimize campaign efforts.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT645": {"title": "Online Marketing Channels", "description": "This course will expose students to online marketing channels, such as, social media platform and players, and measurement and analysis. Marketing channels such as internet display advertising, remarketing, email marketing, affiliate marketing, mobile marketing, video marketing, virtual worlds, gaming, and public relations will also be examined.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT646": {"title": "Promotional Strategies", "description": "This course is concerned with the development, evaluation, and implementation of integrated marketing communication strategies in complex environments. The course deals primarily with an in-depth analysis of a variety of concepts, theories, facts and analytical procedures, techniques and models in topics that include various communication functions, media alternatives and the integrated marketing communication concept.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT650": {"title": "Retailing", "description": "Addresses the fundamentals of merchandising and promotion from both the perspective of the proprietorship and a chain store manager. Incorporates the topics of franchising, telemarketing, marketing strategies and re-search into the course.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT655": {"title": "Social Media Marketing Strategy", "description": "This course will develop the students' ability to effectively and successfully create, and implement a social media marketing campaign and evaluate as well as measure its success.  Intensive skill building will be placed on creating, applying and integrating the appropriate social media tool that will enable marketers to build high-value relationships with their constituencies.  The course will focus on key elements such as determining and matching social media tactics with the appropriate target market and developing strategies to engage those markets using relevant social media channels.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT656": {"title": "Distribution Management", "description": "The success in today's marketplace requires an effective and efficient supply chain system which in turn determine a firm productivity and performance. In this course students explore the strategic issue of order and market or planned demand. Students examine the relationship between logistics, product life cycle management and customers' needs.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT660": {"title": "Marketing Strategies for Not-For-Profit Organizations", "description": "Students in this course apply marketing concepts and practices to not-for-profit organizations. This course also explores sources of financial support and strategies for their development.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT665": {"title": "Digital Story Telling and Branding", "description": "Explore marketing theories and application of digital storytelling for the purpose of engaging an organization\u2019s consumers and stakeholders. In addition, focus on digital branding through storytelling to differentiate an organization from competitors while conveying its purpose and mission. Gain hands-on experience in the strategic implementation of a brand narrative using various marketing approaches and analyses.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT666": {"title": "Social Media Marketing Campaigns", "description": "This course will develop the student's ability to effectively and successfully create and implement a social media marketing campaign and evaluate as well as measure its success.  Intensive skill building will be placed on creating, applying and integrating the appropriate social media tools to meet the marketing objectives of the organization. The course will focus on key elements such as a) audience, b) campaign objectives, c) strategic plan, d) tactics, e) tools, and f) metrics to measure the campaign.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT668": {"title": "Services Marketing", "description": "The world's economy is undergoing substantial change. Globally, many manufactured products have service components. Domestically, a shift in emphasis from a base in manufactured goods to an economy based in services is in progress. Whether a firm is marketing manufactured goods, services, or a combination, services marketing can provide a competitive advantage. Therefore, understanding the service aspect of business is a requirement for every marketer, in every company, in every industry. This course presents concepts, theories, models and measurements of services marketing using current literature in the field, cases and experiential opportunities. It stresses the global perspective and covers both B2B and consumer services.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT670": {"title": "Product Management", "description": "This course addresses the growing role of the product manager within the marketing organization and his or her role in new product development and management.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT675": {"title": "Ethical and Legal Issues in Marketing", "description": "This course examines a range of ethical issues facing marketing managers as seen through the viewpoints of various comprehensive ethical theories.  The goal is for students to develop their own ethical framework for making marketing decisions within the knowledge of the various ethical theories and U.S. marketing laws. Traditional topics such as ethics in marketing research, product liability, selling, advertising, and pricing are covered.  Emerging ethical issues such as international marketing, competitive intelligence, socially controversial products, privacy, and corporate policies are also examined. However, topics may change to reflect current business concerns.  The course is taught using a seminar format utilizing cases and readings.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT676": {"title": "Marketing Practicum", "description": "The primary goal of the internship experience is to expose students to actual practices in the world of work outside of the classroom, to relate this experience to academic course work and to synthesize the two in a practical application of knowledge in an experiential setting.  Secondarily, internships offer the opportunity to develop crucial job searching skills, explore career interests, enhance your resume, make contacts in your chosen field and build references for future employment.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT678": {"title": "Brand Management", "description": "Strong brands are increasingly recognized as one of a company's most valuable assets.  Brands create expectations in consumers, and by their nature implicate the company in delivering on those expectations.  Therefore, the tasks of creating, building and managing brands are critical success factors for a firm.  This course seeks to develop in students an understanding of the theories, models, and strategies that enable a firm to achieve its branding goals.  Through a combination of text and current research publications, students will be exposed to current and emerging brand theories and models.  By analyzing cases, and reading and reviewing current business literature, students will gain understanding into how those theories and models translate into strategies and implementations.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT679": {"title": "Advanced Marketing Research and Analytics (Capstone)", "description": "This course is the capstone for the Marketing Research and Analytics concentration. The course will use the background knowledge from the Marketing Analytics and Marketing Research courses to assess marketing strategies based upon the analysis and interpretation of consumer behavior data. ", "credits": "3"}, "MKT690": {"title": "Corporate Communications", "description": "This course provides students with an understanding of contemporary issues facing corporations, including consumerism, environmentalism and globalism, and the role of public relations in helping an organization thrive in its environment.  The four-part public relations process of research and fact-finding, planning and programming, implementing and communicating and evaluating is reviewed.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT700": {"title": "Marketing Capstone", "description": "This capstone course is the culminating experience for the M.S. in Marketing program. The aim of the capstone is to assess students\u2019 ability to synthesize and integrate the knowledge and skills they have developed throughout their coursework, rather than introducing new concepts. This course is structured to support student success in fulfilling program requirements.", "credits": "3"}, "MKT710": {"title": "Marketing Internship", "description": "The primary goal of the internship experience is to expose graduate students to actual practices in the world of work outside of the classroom, to relate this experience to academic course work and to synthesize the two in a practical application of knowledge in an experiential setting. Secondarily, internships offer the opportunity to develop crucial job searching skills, explore career interests, enhance your resume, make contacts in your chosen field and build references for future employment. Each intern will work in a career-related position during the academic term for which the student is enrolled for the internship - Term 1, Term 2, Term 3 or Term 4 - completing a minimum of 150 hours on the job per 3 credits.", "credits": "3"}}, "Mathematics": {"MAT050": {"title": "Fundamentals of Algebra", "description": "This course includes a review of basic arithmetic and an introduction to elementary algebra. Topics may include: pre-algebra review; real numbers; algebraic expressions; linear equations/inequalities; quadratic equations; graphing; systems of equations; exponents, polynomials and rational expressions. (Credits awarded for this course are in addition to the 120-credit minimum graduation requirement.)", "credits": "3"}, "MAT125": {"title": "Quantitative Reasoning & Problem Solving", "description": "This course focuses on the development of sound quantitative reasoning and problem solving skills, as applied to everyday situations. While this course will have computational elements, the focus is to be placed on conceptual understanding and creative problem solving through relevant applications. Problem solving strategies, inductive/deductive reasoning, analysis of quantitative information and arguments, and communication are the enduring threads. ", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Using Data to Inform Decisions"}, "MAT130": {"title": "Applied Finite Mathematics", "description": "This course is designed to prepare students for other courses in the core curriculum and in their majors and to provide a basis for making decisions in life after graduation.  Topics include mathematics of finance, probability and counting, descriptive statistics and basic linear regression. (Students who have successfully completed MAT 120 or MAT 150 may not register for MAT 130).", "credits": "3"}, "MAT133": {"title": "Introduction to Statistical Analysis", "description": "Explore the concepts of probability and statistics using technology applications. Learn about statistical design and analysis using the theories of probability and the tools of descriptive statistics. Gain statistical analysis skills through the use of computer software.", "credits": "3"}, "MAT135": {"title": "The Heart of Mathematics", "description": "The Heart of Mathematics considers the history, mathematical beauty, and real world applications of a wide variety of topics.  This discussion-based course encourages \"out-of-the-box\" thinking to explore the connections between mathematics and the world around us.  Topics may include: patterns in nature, infinity, topology, geometry, networking, fractals, and chaos theory, among others.", "credits": "3"}, "MAT136": {"title": "Introduction to Quantitative Analysis", "description": "Explore the mathematical concepts necessary for success in Precalculus. Learn about simplification of algebraic expressions, techniques for solving equations and functions, graphical and numerical summaries of data, and their real world applications. Gain quantitative analysis skills in systems of linear equations, properties of functions and expressions, polynomials, and their representations.", "credits": "3"}, "MAT140": {"title": "Precalculus", "description": "This course emphasizes the algebra and concepts of functions. Students will learn the properties and graphing techniques for different types of functions including: linear, polynomial, rational, trigonometric, exponential, and logarithmic functions. Students will also learn to solve a variety of real world problems that rely on a number of different problem solving strategies and an understanding of these different types of functions. This course is intended for those students who wish to prepare for Calculus.", "credits": "3"}, "MAT210": {"title": "Applied Calculus I", "description": "This is an introductory course in single-variable calculus. Topics include limits, continuity, derivatives, differentiation, integration and the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus. Students will gain experience solving real-world problems involving calculus, including problems in business, economics, natural sciences and social sciences.", "credits": "3"}, "MAT211": {"title": "Applied Calculus II", "description": "This course is a continuation of MAT 210. Topics include integration by parts, functions of several variables, trigonometric functions, techniques of integration, differential equations, Taylor polynomials and infinite series. Students will learn applications in business, economics, natural sciences and social sciences. Students may not take both MAT 211 and MAT 275 for credit.", "credits": "3"}, "MAT223": {"title": "Applications of Calculus", "description": "Examine the applications of differential and integral calculus within the fields of STEM. Learn about limits, continuity, derivatives, differentiation, integration, and the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus. Develop in-depth knowledge of techniques of calculus used to solve application problems encountered in STEM studies.", "credits": "3"}, "MAT225": {"title": "Calculus I: Single-Variable Calculus", "description": "Calculus is the mathematical study of change that has widespread applications in science, engineering, economics and business.  This course provides a rigorous introduction to single-variable calculus.  Topics include limits, continuity, differentiation and integration of algebraic, trigonometric, exponential, and logarithmic functions, applications of derivatives, and integration, including the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus.  This course will encourage students to think beyond memorizing formulas and to work towards understanding concepts.", "credits": "3"}, "MAT225L": {"title": "Calculus I: Single-Variable Calculus Lab", "description": "0 - 1", "credits": ""}, "MAT230": {"title": "Discrete Mathematics", "description": "Discrete mathematics is the study of mathematical structures that are fundamentally discrete rather than continuous.  That is, in contrast to the real numbers that vary continuously, the objects of study in discrete mathematics take on distinct, separated values.  Topics include operations on sets, logic, truth tables, counting, relations and digraphs, functions, trees and graph theory.  A significant goal of this course is to improve students' critical-thinking and problem-solving skills.", "credits": "3"}, "MAT240": {"title": "Applied Statistics", "description": "This is a fundamental course in the application of statistics. In this course, students will learn to apply statistical techniques to a variety of applications in business and the social sciences. Students will learn how to solve statistical problems by hand and through the use of computer software. Topics include probability distribution functions, sampling distributions, estimation, hypothesis testing and linear regression.", "credits": "3"}, "MAT243": {"title": "Applied Statistics for Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM)", "description": "Examine STEM applications of statistical inferential techniques using scripting languages. Learn how to solve statistical problems through the use of advanced statistical computer coding. Develop in-depth knowledge of probability distributions, sampling distributions, estimation, hypothesis testing, and linear regression.", "credits": "3"}, "MAT260": {"title": "Cryptology", "description": "Cryptology is a mathematically rich subject that includes both cryptography - the science of making secret codes - and cryptanalysis - the science of breaking secret codes.  Historically, cryptology has played a central role in military and government covert actions and modern-day data security.  In this course, we develop a number of mathematical topics including modular arithmetic, statistics, probability, permutation functions, algorithms, binary numbers, base twenty-six, primes, factorization, the Euclidean algorithm, and Fermat's Little Theorem as they pertain to classical cryptographic techniques, symmetric computer-based cryptography, and public key cryptography.  We also examine the historical backdrop of cryptology and examine legal issues concerning cryptology.", "credits": "3"}, "MAT275": {"title": "Calculus II: Integration & Series", "description": "This course is a continuation of MAT 225 that deepens a student's understanding of single-variable calculus.  Students will learn new techniques of integration, including substitution, integration by parts, partial fractions, and integration tables.  This course will also extend a student's knowledge of addition.  That is, students already know how to add two, three, or n numbers together but, in this course they will learn how to add an infinitely many numbers together.  This will enable students to represent differentiable functions-including exponential, trigonometric and logarithmic functions-as functions that look like polynomials with infinitely many terms.  In doing so, students will enhance their abilities to evaluate and estimate integrals.  Finally, students will also learn about parametric curves and polar coordinates-both useful tools for describing the motion of moving objects such as projectiles, planets, or satellites-in order to apply single-variable calculus skills in additional settings. Students may not take both MAT 211 and MAT 275 for credit.", "credits": "3"}, "MAT275L": {"title": "Calculus II: Integration & Series Lab", "description": "0 - 1", "credits": ""}, "MAT299": {"title": "Mathematical Proof and Problem Solving", "description": "This course introduces students to the language and methods used to create and write mathematical proofs and solve problems.  Methods of proof will include: direct, contrapositive, contradiction, and induction.  Methods of problem solving will be based on Polya's four steps for problem solving. Students will learn about and utilize the many functions of proof including: verification, explanation, communication, discovery, justification, and inquiry.  The course will also explore the relationship between problem solving and the process of proving.  Students will explore fundamental abstract concepts in mathematics including:  functions and relations, set theory, number theory, and logic.", "credits": "3"}, "MAT300": {"title": "Applied Statistics II: Regression Analysis", "description": "This is a second course in statistics that builds upon knowledge gained in an introduction to statistics course.  Students will learn to build statistical models and implement regression analysis in real-world problems from engineering, sociology, psychology, science, and business. Topics include multiple regression models (including first-order, second-order and interaction models with quantitative and qualitative variables), regression pitfalls, and residual analysis.  Students will gain experience not only in the mechanics of regression analysis (often by means of a statistical software package) but also in deciding on appropriate models, selecting inferential techniques to answer a particular question, interpreting results, and diagnosing problems.", "credits": "3"}, "MAT325": {"title": "Calculus III: Multivariable Calculus", "description": "Many real-world applications of calculus in science, engineering, economics, and business employ functions with many variables.  This course extends the basic concepts of single-variable calculus developed in MAT 225 and MAT 275 to functions of several variables.  Topics include vectors, the geometry of space, vector-valued functions, motion in space, partial derivatives and multiple integrals.   ", "credits": "3"}, "MAT330": {"title": "Differential Equations", "description": "Differential equations are useful in modeling real-world phenomenon involving rates of change such as the spread of disease, the change in a population, the free fall of an object, and the decay of a radioactive substance.  This is a first course in differential equations.  Topics include solving first- and higher-order differential equations and modeling with first- and higher-order differential equations.", "credits": "3"}, "MAT350": {"title": "Applied Linear Algebra", "description": "This is a first course in linear algebra and matrices.  Topics include systems of linear equations, linear independence, matrices of linear transformations, matrix algebra, determinants, vector spaces, eigenvalues and eigenvectors. After mastering the basic concepts and skills, students will use their knowledge of linear algebra to model a selection of applied mathematics problems in business, science, computer science and economics.", "credits": "3"}, "MAT350LC": {"title": "Applied Linear Algebra-Computer Science Lab", "description": "1", "credits": ""}, "MAT350LE": {"title": "Applied Linear Algebra-Engineering Lab", "description": "0 - 1", "credits": ""}, "MAT375": {"title": "Mathematical Modeling", "description": "This course introduces students to the art of mathematical modeling. Using a scenario-based approach, students will examine model construction, analysis, interpretation, and evaluation in a wide variety of contexts. Graphical, numerical, and symbolic techniques are employed to investigate real world data and phenomena.   ", "credits": "3"}, "MAT410": {"title": "Operations Research", "description": "This course introduces students to deterministic modeling in the field of operations research. Using a scenario-based approach, students will explore linear, integer, and nonlinear programming as applied to classical and contemporary optimization problems.", "credits": "3"}, "MAT415": {"title": "Abstract Algebra", "description": "Algebra is concerned with sets of objects and operations on these sets. This course will take students beyond the real number and polynomials to groups and other algebraic structures. In a modern, or abstract algebra course, one assumes a small number of basic properties as axioms and then proves many other properties from the axioms. This will assist the student in becoming more proficient at proof-writing.", "credits": "3"}, "MAT420": {"title": "Dynamical Modeling", "description": "This course introduces students to dynamical models within the field of science. Linear and nonlinear models and systems are explored through the lens of classical and contemporary science applications. Emphasis is placed on stability, bifurcations, and linearization.", "credits": "3"}, "MAT430": {"title": "Seminar in Applied Mathematics", "description": "In this culminating course, students apply mathematical and/or statistical skills to a particular focus area by completing a research project in applied mathematics. The topic of the project is selected from a list of topics in the applied sciences (economics, engineering, physics, chemistry, biology, epidemiology, pharmacology, physiology, music, or the social sciences) or may be chosen by the student with instructor approval. Application of technology tools is required to model the problem, obtain quantitative results, and complete the project.", "credits": "3"}, "MAT450": {"title": "History of Math and Math Education", "description": "This course will look at the historical development of the disciplines of mathematics and mathematics education.  Within the discipline of mathematics we will examine the development of number and number systems, geometry and measurement, algebra, probability and statistics, calculus, and discrete mathematics.  Within the discipline of mathematics education we will examine the development of learning theories, theories of teaching mathematics, research trends, and mathematics curriculum.  Throughout this course students will study the history of mathematics and mathematics education through readings, case studies, and problem sets.", "credits": "3"}, "MAT470": {"title": "Real Analysis", "description": "This course provides a theoretical foundation for single-variable calculus concepts.  Topics include the structure of the real numbers, sequences, continuity, differentiation and Riemann integration.  This course will be run as a seminar that emphasize problem solving, proof writing and orally defending proofs.", "credits": "3"}}, "Mental Health Counseling": {"MHC500": {"title": "Professional Issues, Ethics, and Laws in Clinical Mental Health Counseling", "description": "Focus on the role of the counseling profession in the variety of mental health systems, including community, state, and federal agencies, hospitals, and private-practice. Explore HIPAA and related laws, informed consent policies, internal procedures, populations served, relevant laws and state statutes, funding, and ethical considerations counselors\u2019 role in the legal system, consultation, operationalizing of a practice, grants and program evaluations. Consider questions such as, \u2018where do I fit in the profession?\u2019 and \u2018how does the counseling profession impose structure on the mental health system?\u2019.", "credits": "3"}, "MHC610": {"title": "Treatment Planning in Clinical Mental Health Counseling", "description": "Integrate the content learned throughout the program regarding evaluation, assessment, and diagnosis so that it may be utilized in practicum. Develop treatment plans that include risk assessment, goal setting, and treatment intervention strategies. Communicate treatment plans to clients.", "credits": "3"}, "MHC670": {"title": "Clinical Mental Health Counseling Practicum", "description": "In this course, students work with actual clients under the supervision of a licensed counselor. Students meet as a small group in a seminar-style course led by a faculty member. A minimum of 100 hours at an approved counseling site is required. ", "credits": "3"}, "MHC680": {"title": "Clinical Mental Health Counseling Internship", "description": "In the internship experience, students work with actual clients under the supervision of a licensed counselor. Students meet as a group in a seminar-style course led by a faculty member. A minimum of 600 hours of total internship time at an approved counseling site is required. ", "credits": "3"}, "MHC690": {"title": "Advanced Internship in Clinical Mental Health Counseling", "description": "In the internship experience, students work with actual clients under the supervision of a licensed counselor. Students meet as a group in a seminar-style course led by a faculty member. A minimum of 600 hours of total internship time at an approved counseling site is required. ", "credits": "3"}, "MHC695": {"title": "Advanced Internship in Clinical Mental Health Counseling II", "description": "This elective course is for students who need or wish to complete additional Internship hours beyond the 600 hours required. In the internship experience, students work with actual clients under the supervision of a licensed counselor. Students meet in a group in a seminar-style course led by a faculty member.  ", "credits": "3"}}, "Music": {"MUS223": {"title": "Appreciation and History of Music", "description": "This course introduces students to the scope and history of Western art music, with emphasis on music of the Baroque, Classical, Romantic and Modern periods.  It provides vocabulary, concepts and aural skills that allow listeners to hear with greater discernment and appreciation.  Topics include composers, styles, instrumentation, form, texture and cultural contexts.", "credits": "3"}}, "Nursing": {"NUR300": {"title": "Scholarly Inquiry", "description": "This course is designed to introduce the licensed registered nurse to the role of the bachelor's prepared nurse in complex health care setting. The Transformational model of learning will be the foundation to develop scholarly inquiry in order to improve practice. Skill development in critical reflection, assessing evidence, professional writing, study habits, and work-life balance will be essential for success. The goal is to provide a knowledge base in nursing theory to improve nursing practice. The role of the Bachelor's prepared nurse as a patient advocate, clinical expert and a leader in evidence-based practice and transformation of health care will be emphasized. The course will discuss the capstone course and development of a project.", "credits": "3"}, "NUR305": {"title": "Information Management and Patient Care Technologies", "description": "This course explores patient care technologies, information systems, telecommunication technologies, and communication devices that support safe nursing practice. Topics covered include standardized terminology; electronic health record, patient portal, meaningful use, and pay for performance; data integrity, abstraction and mining; use of clinical decision support tools to promote patient safety, and ethical and legal issues related to information technology.", "credits": "3"}, "NUR315": {"title": "Pathophysiology for Nurses", "description": "This course introduces the student to common health problems in individuals. Adult conditions will be reviewed. Cellular disruptions resulting from environmental, genetic, and stress conditions will be analyzed. The understanding of nursing process to assess, diagnose, plan and implement treatments for disease processes will serve as the foundation for decision-making and management. Diagnostic evaluations and holistic management of selected disease processes will be explored.", "credits": "3"}, "NUR325": {"title": "Patient Assessment and Health Literacy", "description": "The student will analyze health assessment methods and communication strategies for diverse populations across the continuum of care in this course. An overview of assessment techniques and patient education will be explored in order to support informed health care decisions. Development of interpersonal effectiveness and cultural competence will be the focus of competency for the student. The goal of health literacy will be to develop verbal and written communication strategies that nurses can use to effectively meet the individualized needs of the patient to promote health and address illness. The student will review standards of care and regulations which oversee the provision of safe and effective care. This three-credit hour course will include 45 hours of practical application of the knowledge, skills, and attitudes acquired in the course.", "credits": "3"}, "NUR350": {"title": "Community and Population Health", "description": "In this course, the student will develop the ability to assess, analyze, and recommend change for health issues for groups and in communities. Topics will include local and regional conditions that affect vulnerable populations through the lifespan. Case management and care coordination will be discussed. Application of community health principles will be the foundation for recommending interventions. The prevention will include diverse, environmental disease treatments and healthcare policy strategies. This three credit hour course will include 45 hours of practical application of the knowledge, skills, and attitudes acquired in the course.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Community Health"}, "NUR350AP": {"title": "Community and Population Health AP", "description": "In this course, the student develops the ability to assess, analyze, and recommend change for health issues encountered in groups and communities. Topics include local, regional, and global conditions affecting vulnerable populations throughout the lifespan. Application of community health principles are the foundation for recommending interventions. Diverse environmental, disease treatments, and health care policy strategies are the goal for prevention. Focus is on the leadership role of the nurse in collaborating to improve and promote health. Students are expected to demonstrate competency in one Master\u2019s level program outcome. This course includes 45 hours of practical application of knowledge, skills, and attitudes required of the baccalaureate-prepared nurse.", "credits": "3"}, "NUR400": {"title": "Systems Leadership for Continuous Quality", "description": "This course will explore organizational and systems leadership within the complex clinical microsystems to promote high quality patient care utilizing the knowledge, skills and attitudes to promote care coordination, negotiation, change management, team building and collaboration within the interdisciplinary team. Topics will include quality improvement and safety concepts using structure, process and outcome measures, and performance improvement methodologies to promote quality outcomes for diverse populations. This three credit hour course will include 45 hours of practical application of knowledge, skills, and attitudes.", "credits": "3"}, "NUR440": {"title": "Research & Evidence-Based Practice", "description": "Undergraduate students will be introduced to theory-guided and evidence-based nursing practice. Students will acquire the skills to become proficient consumers of nursing research. Focus is placed on understanding established research methodologies, ways of knowing in nursing, and developing the knowledge, attitudes, skills, and behaviors to retrieve and critique published studies for application to evidence-based nursing practice. This three credit course will include 45 hours of practical application of knowledge, skills, and attitudes required of the baccalaureate-prepared nurse.", "credits": "3"}, "NUR440AP": {"title": "Research & Evidence-Based Practice AP", "description": "Undergraduate students will be introduced to theory-guided and evidence-based nursing practice. Students will acquire the skills to become proficient consumers of nursing research. Focus is placed on understanding established research methodologies, ways of knowing in nursing, and developing the knowledge, attitudes, skills, and behaviors to retrieve and critique published studies for application to evidence-based nursing practice. This three credit course will include 45 hours of practical application of knowledge, skills, and attitudes required of the baccalaureate-prepared nurse.", "credits": "3"}, "NUR490": {"title": "Transformational Capstone", "description": "The Transformational Capstone course will utilize a seminar process, portfolio development, and final project to illustrate achievement of all program outcomes. In keeping with the Transformational Learning Theory, the summative activities will provide evidence of the student's progression to a baccalaureate-professional nurse. This three credit hour course will include 90 hours of practicum experience to demonstrate synthesis of the knowledge, skills, and attitudes acquired in the program.", "credits": "3"}, "NUR502": {"title": "Teaching and Learning in Nursing", "description": "This course covers instructional frameworks, learning environments, and classroom and student management and motivation techniques. Learners explore theories associated with optimizing the teaching experience and student outcomes and gain an understanding of the teaching, learning, communication, and motivation strategies used for specific learning situations and student populations. Learners identify various learning barriers and formulate appropriate teaching strategies to address them, including acknowledging and using emotional intelligence. As part of this course, learners are required to teach in an online course room. Must be enrolled in MSN program.", "credits": "3"}, "NUR506": {"title": "Evidence-Based Practice", "description": "Graduate nursing students build upon previous learning of nursing research and evidence-based practice in order to become proficient in critiquing, generating, translating research evidence into practice, and disseminating results to advance nursing knowledge. Emphasis is placed on identifying a researchable practice question, analysis of research findings for evidence-based practice, and ethical issues in nursing research.  Students demonstrate proficiency in selection of methodologies which may be used to generate research evidence for practice.", "credits": "3"}, "NUR507": {"title": "Transition to Graduate Nursing Practice", "description": "This course is designed to assist the registered nurse with a BSN degree to transition to graduate study in order to maximize their performance and opportunities for success. The course will cover such topics as the standards for scholarly writing, using evidence, study habits, and managing a graduate-level workload. The role of the Master's-prepared nurse as a clinical scholar, clinical expert and as leader in evidence-based practice and transformation of health care will be emphasized. The course will introduce the final capstone course and the development of a professional portfolio.", "credits": "3"}, "NUR515": {"title": "Advanced Nursing Concepts", "description": "In this course, students will analyze the history and evolution of nursing conceptual models and theories. Students examine the linkages between empirical, aesthetic, ethical, personal, and sociopolitical patterns of knowing with the conceptual models and paradigms of nursing. Students will explore the components of conceptual-theoretical-empirical structures for theory-generating, theory-testing research, and application to practice. Students who successfully complete the course (B- or better, course work & projects) will receive 45 indirect practice hours.", "credits": "3"}, "NUR530": {"title": "Systems Leadership and Collaborative Practice", "description": "This course provides students with the strategies and tools necessary for leadership roles in systems management and inter-professional practice. Ethical leadership concepts, analysis of diverse organizational systems across the healthcare continuum, change agency and communication skills are emphasized in the processes of coalition building, negotiating conflict, workforce planning and inter-professional team relationship building to produce quality patient outcomes. The course will enhance student ability to think systematically and develop comprehensive understanding of core competencies required to initiate and sustain change in organizations.", "credits": "3"}, "NUR540": {"title": "Advanced Pathophysiology Across the Life Span", "description": "Analyze the relationships between normal physiology and specific system alterations produced by injury and disease to foster clinical reasoning skills. Determine the developmental, genetic, environmental influences, and clinical manifestations of major health problems across the lifespan with a focus on etiology and pathogenesis. Utilize the nursing process as the foundation for decision-making and holistic management.", "credits": "3"}, "NUR545": {"title": "Advanced Health and Literacy Assessment", "description": "Build on knowledge of pathophysiology and clinical experience to master health assessment skills and communication strategies. Conduct comprehensive, evidence-based health assessments encompassing environmental, genetic, multicultural, ethnic, and socioeconomic factors. Explore ways of adapting their communication style to meet the specific needs of their clients. Examine the physical and mental health exam and formulate plans to ensure effective patient-centered care, including assessing health literacy when conducting care and education. Utilize simulations to practice knowledge and skill acquisition (additional costs for practice simulation software may occur).", "credits": "3"}, "NUR601": {"title": "Advanced Pathophysiology", "description": "Students build upon prior knowledge of physiology and pathophysiological processes to acquire advanced knowledge of the relationships between normal physiology and specific system alterations produced by injury and disease to foster clinical reasoning skills. Focus is placed on etiology, pathogenesis, developmental, genetic, environmental influences, and clinical manifestations of major health problems across the lifespan.", "credits": "3"}, "NUR602": {"title": "Advanced Pharmacology Across the Life Span", "description": "Content focuses on current concepts in the pharmacologic therapies of common health care problems seen in primary and acute care health care. Basic pathophysiology, clinical pharmacology, modes of therapy, and monitoring parametrics are explored. Diagnosis and management of health care problems and their treatment regimens are discussed. Case studies are utilized to clarify, reinforce, and correlate therapeutics with specific health care problems.", "credits": "3"}, "NUR603": {"title": "Epidemiology", "description": "This course provides and in-depth exploration of the concepts and methods of epidemiological research. Students will critique the principles of epidemiology with an emphasis on health promotion and disease prevention research. Epidemiologic concepts, bio-statistical principles and research design strategies are emphasized. Students will critique current epidemiologic study designs and develop an epidemiologic proposal with implications for health promotion.", "credits": "3"}, "NUR606": {"title": "Communications and Collaboration", "description": "This course introduces advanced communication strategies for patient safety success in the current healthcare environment. Course topics include: enhanced communication skills, individual and group design/presentation techniques, hand-off, chain of command, critical thinking strategies and skills, stress and time management, group process and group dynamics. This course challenges the students to use creative and critical thinking to become a creative patient safety/problem-solver and leader working within a complex healthcare environment.", "credits": "3"}, "NUR607": {"title": "Advanced Health Assessment", "description": "In this course, students will build on previous clinical experience, as well as undergraduate course work to master health assessment skills and communication strategies. Students conduct comprehensive, evidence-based health assessments encompassing environmental, genetic, multicultural, ethnic, and socioeconomic factors. Students also explore ways of adapting their communication style to meet the specific needs of their audience. The course also focuses on mastering the physical and mental health exam and formulating plans to ensure effective patient-centered care. Periodic hands on simulation assignments will be utilized formatively to practice knowledge and skill acquisition. *This course may incur additional costs for practice simulation software.", "credits": "3"}, "NUR635": {"title": "Teaching and Learning for Nurse Educator", "description": "This course explores the process of teaching and learning in nursing education. Nurse educator roles and expectations are examined. Theories and philosophies of learning and different types of teaching strategies are evaluated for their application in a variety of nursing education settings and levels of education, and for their impact on diverse learners. Emphasis is placed on who the learner is and how they learn, who the faculty is and what the faculty role entails, and the use of appropriate evidence-based teaching strategies. ", "credits": "3"}, "NUR640": {"title": "Assessment and Evaluation in Nursing Education", "description": "This course examines basic principles of assessment and evaluation of learning in academic, online, and clinical settings. Students will explore content about assessment versus evaluation; formative and summative assessments; test development, item analysis, developing and using grading rubrics; standardized testing in nursing - ATI, HESI, NCLEX - and evaluation of clinical performance. The course also explores legal and ethical issues related to evaluation and grading. Students who successfully complete the course (B- or better, course work & projects) will receive 45 indirect practice hours.", "credits": "3"}, "NUR645": {"title": "Curriculum Design in Nursing", "description": "Explore strategies for the development of curricula in nursing education. Learn how to synthesize evidence from the science of nursing education with nursing professional standards and institutional missions and philosophies in developing nursing curricula. Students gain a comprehensive view of the nurse educator's responsibility in curriculum development, evaluation, and revision.", "credits": "3"}, "NUR650": {"title": "Care Coordination and Outcomes Management", "description": "This course is designed to prepare CNL students to lead and collaborate with members of the healthcare team to deliver high quality, coordinated care to diverse populations of patients as they transition through a variety of healthcare settings. The course will focus on the relationship between care coordination, the patient experience, and the national quality outcomes that hospitals and nursing professionals should be meeting. Students will explore concepts related to transition management, team-based care, and quality improvement measures across healthcare settings, with care coordination as a central element of the patient-centered experience.", "credits": "3"}, "NUR680": {"title": "Nursing Capstone Seminar", "description": "Students critical analyze proposals for healthcare quality and safety plans, or clinical problems as developed by student participants. ", "credits": "3"}, "NUR681": {"title": "Nursing Capstone Project", "description": "Students design and analyze a healthcare issue, proposal of policy options, recommendations for action or an evaluation strategy for a selected healthcare setting. Students are evaluated according to criteria, negotiated in advance, that demonstrate current industry best practices. ", "credits": "3"}, "NUR682": {"title": "Generalist Nursing Capstone", "description": "Explore the MSN/Generalist role with an authentic demonstration of program outcomes and competencies.  Students synthesize prior learning to implement a scholarly project to facilitate change in a healthcare setting of their choice.  Analysis of the project's results and dissemination of findings in a comprehensive written summary and presentation complete the successful achievement of program outcomes.", "credits": "3"}, "NUR683": {"title": "Patient Safety and Quality Capstone", "description": "Explore the MSN/Patient Safety & Quality role with an authentic demonstration of program outcomes and competencies.  Students synthesize prior learning to implement a scholarly project to facilitate change in a healthcare setting of their choice.  Analysis of the project's results and dissemination of findings in a comprehensive written summary and presentation complete the successful achievement of program outcomes.", "credits": "3"}, "NUR684": {"title": "Clinical Nurse Leader Capstone", "description": "Observe and explore the Clinical Nurse Leader (CNL) role under the guidance of a CNL preceptor during a 300 hour clinical immersion experience. Synthesize prior learning by implementing a scholarly project developed during your program of study. Students gain practical experience with a focus on an authentic demonstration of the CNL role and the AACN Clinical Nurse Leader certification exam competencies.", "credits": "3"}, "NUR685": {"title": "Nurse Educator Capstone", "description": "Observe and explore the Nurse Educator role under the guidance of an experienced nurse educator preceptor during a 120 hour teaching immersion experience. Synthesize prior learning by implementing a scholarly project developed during your program of study. Students gain practical experience with a focus on an authentic demonstration of the nurse educator role and the NLN Certified Nurse Educator exam competencies.", "credits": "3"}}, "Organizational Leadership": {"OL125": {"title": "Human Relations in Administration", "description": "The human relations skills that managers need to develop interaction skills that contribute directly to effective human resource management and the development of higher productivity are studied.  Skill areas include leadership, motivation, communications, group dynamics, organizational development, management by objectives, and stress and time management. Students learn techniques for becoming more effective managers, subordinates, peers and persons.  Students are introduced to the international aspects of human relations.", "credits": "3"}, "OL211": {"title": "Human Resource Management", "description": "This course examines the fundamentals of policies and administration.  Major tasks of procedures and developing, maintaining and utilizing an effective team are studied. Students are introduced to international human resource management.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Human Resource Management"}, "OL215": {"title": "Principles of Management", "description": "This course is designed to examine the fundamentals and principles of management in order to develop an understanding of management in any formal organization.  Special attention is paid to planning and decision-making.  International management is also covered.  Writing Intensive Course.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Foundations of Management"}, "OL265": {"title": "Introduction to Managing Not-For-Profit Organizations", "description": "This introduction course will examine the theory and practice of leadership and decision-making in the nonprofit sector. Students will be exposed to core classic and contemporary theories on leadership, management, governance and organizational effectiveness of nonprofit organizations.", "credits": "3"}, "OL301": {"title": "Real Estate", "description": "This comprehensive real estate course deals with all the aspects of real estate necessary to operate as a real estate salesperson or broker.", "credits": "3"}, "OL317": {"title": "Small Business Management", "description": "The problems involved in starting and operating a successful small business, selecting the location, determining how to borrow money, budgeting and credit are discussed. Junior standing or permission of instructor.", "credits": "3"}, "OL318": {"title": "Employee and Labor Relations", "description": "This course examines employee-management relationships in both the union and non-union environments with an emphasis on best practices. Junior standing or permission of instructor.", "credits": "3"}, "OL320": {"title": "Entrepreneurship", "description": "This course focuses on the factors that contribute to the personal success of entrepreneurs and affect successful entrepreneurship. Entrepreneurship is also studied.  Case studies, contemporary readings and simulations are used. International considerations are included. ", "credits": "3"}, "OL321": {"title": "Business Plan Preparation", "description": "Students will prepare, either individually or in teams, a comprehensive business plan for a new venture. Junior standing or permission of instructor.", "credits": "3"}, "OL322": {"title": "Managing Organizational Change", "description": "This course focuses on the effective management of human resources during the process of change. It emphasizes change management as a tool for survival, growth, increased productivity and conflict management in the complex and volatile business environment of today and the future. Change in an international environment also is discussed. Team intensive course. Junior standing or permission of instructor.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Change Management"}, "OL324": {"title": "Managing Quality", "description": "Students study total quality management (TQM), which is crucial to efficient resource allocation and effective human resource management.  Major factors affecting quality and strategies for effective total quality management are covered through the use of contemporary texts, reading, cases, exercises and simulations.  International considerations also are studied. \nTeam intensive course.", "credits": "3"}, "OL325": {"title": "Total Rewards", "description": "This course covers the development and administration of compensation and benefit programs for organizations.  Wage theory, principles and practices, unemployment security, worker income security, group insurance, and disability and pension plans are investigated. Emphasis is placed on objectives, policies, organization, implementation and revision of compensation and benefit systems.", "credits": "3"}, "OL326": {"title": "Social Environment of Business", "description": "This course examines the interrelationships among business, government and society and how these relationships evolve over time and shape our world.  Through the use of readings, cases, and class discussions, students will examine a variety of important topics impacting the global business environment, including business power, corporate social responsibility, business ethics, regulation, multinational corporations, globalization, pollution and environmental quality.  A key focus is on the historical origins of the tensions amongst wealth, virtue, and business and society in developed and developing nations and economies.", "credits": "3"}, "OL328": {"title": "Leadership", "description": "This course examines leadership as an inter-personal and intra-organizational phenomenon with an emphasis on student leadership development.  It includes leadership assessment, leadership development, the leadership process, the contagious nature of leadership, leadership and productivity, motivation, and effective leadership styles and theories.  An international perspective is included.  Current readings, research, simulations and exercises are used. Team intensive course.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Healthcare Leadership"}, "OL330": {"title": "Grant Writing", "description": "The ability to secure funding through grant writing is essential for nonprofit organizations. This course covers strategy for aligning the needs of the nonprofit organization to available funding sources. Additionally, the course reviews how to identify a need for funding, source grant opportunities, mutual benefits between a nonprofit and a funder's mission, and the grant writing process.", "credits": "3"}, "OL342": {"title": "Organizational Behavior", "description": "This course focuses on the primary factors that influence behavior in organizations.  Emphasis is placed on leadership, group dynamics, inter- group dynamics, organizational structure and design, change, culture, power and politics, environment and technology and organizational behavior in an international context.  Offered every year.  Writing and team intensive course. Junior standing or permission of instructor.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Organizational Behavior"}, "OL421": {"title": "Strategic Management and Policy (Capstone)", "description": "Business School Capstone Course. This interdisciplinary approach to the study of the process of strategic management includes strategic analysis planning, implementation, evaluation and control from the perspective of top management in profit-making U.S. and international corporations, and public and non-profit organizations.  Text and case studies are used extensively.  Writing and team intensive course.  Experience with Microsoft Office or equivalent is required.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Strategic Organizational Alignment"}, "OL442": {"title": "Human Resource Strategy and Development", "description": "This course provides an in-depth examination of human resource strategy and development.  Students will gain an understanding of the importance of sound HR practices and the integral role they play in achieving organizational success.  Students will examine the environment of HR management; the challenges of staffing organizations, locally and internationally; the relationship of a learning organization to training and development; the role compensation and benefit strategies play in motivating the developing employee; and the concerns and issues related to employee and labor relations. Senior standing or permission of instructor.", "credits": "3"}, "OL445": {"title": "Nonprofit Management Seminar", "description": "The nonprofit management seminar provides students with an opportunity to apply knowledge toward identifying solutions and strategies for addressing challenges facing nonprofit leaders.  Students will assume a leadership role of a nonprofit organization in a simulated experiential environment.", "credits": "3"}, "OL480": {"title": "Independent Study", "description": "This course allows the student to investigate any organizational leadership subject not incorporated into the curriculum.", "credits": "0 - 3"}, "OL490": {"title": "Business Administration Internship", "description": "This is a semester-long, supervised, career- related work experience. A final written analysis of the work program or a specific project report and monthly on-the-job reports aid the student in relating academics to practice.", "credits": "0 - 15"}, "OL492": {"title": "Business Studies Internship", "description": "0 - 15", "credits": ""}, "OL500": {"title": "Human Behavior in Organizations", "description": "This course is a study of individuals and groups and their interaction. Students examine theories of motivation, communication, leadership, power and change with practical relation to contemporary issues. They also study organizations for key design variables and reward systems aimed at improved performance and organizational efficiency through employee motivational programs, participative management and cooperative decision making.", "credits": "3"}, "OL501": {"title": "Business Foundations", "description": "This course is a foundational survey of the principles, vocabularies, and mechanics of how business firms function. The course is designed to give students with little or no business background the exposure and acumen necessary for advanced coursework in business-related topics and to appreciate the complex interactions of markets and firms. Financial aspects of business including the accounting system, financial statements, and financial reporting are covered in addition to the major macro- and micro-economic theories and market concepts that influence business.", "credits": "3"}, "OL600": {"title": "Strategic Human Resource Management", "description": "Examine key regulatory procedures and human resource requirements as they relate to applications in organizations. Analyze the strategic role of the human resource manager in performing functions of recruitment, hiring, training, career development and other contemporary processes within the organizational setting. Study concepts aligned with the Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) Body of Competency and Knowledge (BoCK).", "credits": "3"}, "OL610": {"title": "Employee and Labor Relations", "description": "This is a study of public and private labor relations and methods of dispute resolution that stresses labor agreement administration, grievance procedures and arbitration.  It includes the examination of the history of union-management relations, bargaining and negotiation strategies.  The limitations of the use of power also are studied.", "credits": "3"}, "OL620": {"title": "Total Rewards", "description": "This course examines the compensation and benefits functions within the organizational structure and ways they impact the management function.  Topics include job analysis, surveys, wage scales, incentives, benefits, HRIS systems and pay delivery administration.  Students design a compensation and benefits program as a course outcome.", "credits": "3"}, "OL630": {"title": "Entrepreneurship and Small Business Management", "description": "This course is a study of entrepreneurship and small businesses from a management standpoint and includes the analysis of research, marketing, taxes, forms of business, capital and venture capital opportunities.  Students complete a real- world project or Small Business Institute consultancy.", "credits": "3"}, "OL635": {"title": "Consulting", "description": "Students examine consulting, from defining what a consultant is to analyzing the problems and expenses involved in starting a consulting business.  Topics include promotion, establishment of a client list, computers that support consulting and contracts.", "credits": "3"}, "OL640": {"title": "Franchising", "description": "Topics include research, analysis, evaluation, financing and legal requirements of existing and potential franchises.  Also included are methodologies of the franchise agreement, the operating manual, the Uniform Franchise Offering Circular (UFOC), and research and marketing theory and practice.  Students prepare a research paper based on a real or proposed franchise.  The course also examines international franchising. Background preparation:  3 credit hours in marketing and business law or the equivalent.", "credits": "3"}, "OL645": {"title": "Law, Ethics, and Politics in HR", "description": "This course contends with the question, \"Is legal compliance synonymous with ethical behavior in HR\" The interrelationship of legal governance, ethical practice, and political influence in human relations management are a central focus of the course. Students will develop relevant expertise in employment law and HR ethics by actively applying their knowledge to vexing issues facing HR professionals today. Topics related to employment law, workplace health, safety, and security, corporate social responsibility, and ethical guidelines and conduct for HR professionals will be addressed in the course.", "credits": "3"}, "OL655": {"title": "Talent Development and Workforce Planning", "description": "Organizations are engaged in continual and dynamic changes in today's business environment, increasing the demand for human resource professionals to leverage strategies to recruit, train, develop, and support a diverse workforce. This course integrates advanced talent management and development skills with strategic workforce planning, asking students to analyze gaps in employee competencies, plan strategic talent development strategies, and forecast workforce needs. Issues such as employee engagement, creating an employment brand, supporting talent through career development, and creating effective succession plans will be emphasized.", "credits": "3"}, "OL660": {"title": "Redesigning Middle Management", "description": "This course addresses the 10 management roles defined by Mintzberg and the three skill areas identified by Katz as applied to the middle management role traditionally found in organizations.  Based on research and a review of the literature on Total Quality Management, Reengineering, and the Learning Organization, the course will outline and enable students to develop a new role for middle managers in a contemporary organizational setting.", "credits": "3"}, "OL663": {"title": "Leading Change", "description": "This course focuses on transforming organizations by introducing Kotter's eight processes by which leaders effect change.  Because organizations, leaders, and employees differ, various techniques and strategies are examined.  The course integrates Kotter's processes for leading change, organizational development and transformation theory and practice, and analysis of an organization which has effected systematic change. The use of work teams as a key change factor will have special emphasis.", "credits": "3"}, "OL665": {"title": "Leading/Managing Not-For-Profit Orgs", "description": "This course is a study of planning, budgeting, control and other management activities in the context of the not-for-profit institution.", "credits": "3"}, "OL667": {"title": "Human Resource Information Systems", "description": "Information systems and data management are  essential components of an effective human resource management plan. This course introduces students to the process for researching information systems technology, conducting needs assessments of the organization, selecting an appropriate HR information system (HRIS), and integrating the system effectively. Additionally, a large focus of the course is on the analysis, use, and protection of data in an HRIS. The goal of this course is to provide the necessary skills for students to effectively research, integrate, and leverage various HR information systems for a variety of purposes in and beyond the course.", "credits": "3"}, "OL668": {"title": "Human Resources in Global Contexts", "description": "Organizations increasingly rely on an international workforce and global markets to succeed. As the workforce has become increasingly diverse, cultural competence is a necessary component of any HR strategy. This course situates strategic human resource management in the global stage, focusing on a wide range of issues related to global markets, global security, managing an international workforce, effective cross-cultural management and communication, and diversity in the workplace. The emphasis is placed on how businesses can become more competitive by leveraging an effective HR plan for diversity and international business.", "credits": "3"}, "OL670": {"title": "Organizational Leadership", "description": "This course combines theory and practice by encouraging students to learn traditional and contemporary leadership theories and apply them to the analysis of the behavior of business managers, entrepreneurs and other recognized individuals.  This course includes readings, cases, exercises and numerous examples of effective leadership models.  Areas covered include the societal evolution of leadership; the leadership roles of strategy, vision and transformational change; the development of leaders; the leadership responsibilities of creating effective teams, organizations and cultures; the exploration of different leadership styles; and current popular approaches to leadership theory.", "credits": "3"}, "OL675": {"title": "Leadership and Ethics", "description": "Leadership and Ethics is a course that focuses on the ways current and emerging leaders assess the values that influence their actions.  The course draws on the rich tradition of great thinkers as well as the extensive body of leadership literature to examine the critical role ethics plays in leadership.  The course, conducted in seminar format, is a process course.  It is only through thoughtful reading, reflections, writing, and discussion that students are able to recognize and shape the qualities they see valuable for their own leadership roles, both personally and professionally.", "credits": "3"}, "OL676": {"title": "Women in Leadership", "description": "This course is designed to create a supportive environment where both women and men can learn about challenges and opportunities facing women in the workplace.  Historically, women have had less access to leadership positions; however, over the past fifty years they have made tremendous strides to succeed in all levels of organizations.  Topics will include why women matter and reasons for inequities in the workforce, the historical context of women and leadership, do men and women lead differently, work/life/family balance issues, professional skill development (networking, mentoring, negotiation, risk-taking), entrepreneurship and executive leadership, advancing societies by advancing women and strategies and tactics for women to act as change agents.", "credits": "3"}, "OL690": {"title": "Responsible Corporate Leadership", "description": "Students investigate the nature of the environments in which business enterprises conduct their operations in order to determine the actual and desirable levels of attentiveness and responsiveness of business managers to the relationship between the enterprise and society.", "credits": "3"}, "OL750": {"title": "Organizational Leadership Capstone", "description": "This capstone course is the culminating experience for the M.S. in Organizational Leadership program. The aim of the capstone is to assess students\u2019 ability to synthesize and integrate the knowledge and skills they have developed throughout their coursework, rather than introducing new concepts. This course is structured to support student success in fulfilling program requirements.", "credits": "3"}, "OL751": {"title": "Human Resource Management Capstone", "description": "This capstone course is the culminating experience for the M.S. in Human Resource Management program. The aim of the capstone is to assess students\u2019 ability to synthesize and integrate the knowledge and skills they have developed throughout their coursework, rather than introducing new concepts. This course is structured to support student success in fulfilling program requirements.", "credits": "3"}}, "Philosophy": {"PHL111": {"title": "Introduction to Critical Thinking", "description": "What makes a good argument? Are some beliefs better than others? Why should we believe in a certain view? This course is an introduction to critical thinking and reasoning, and demonstrates philosophy's practical value for effectively solving problems, communicating ideas, achieving goals, and uncovering truth. Students will challenge assumptions, evaluate arguments from different perspectives, and articulate positions on contemporary issues. This course draws from students' own experience, asking them to examine real-world situations and case studies in order to apply critical thinking to actual practice. Critical thinking skills and strategies in this course are foundational and directly applicable to a variety of future professional or personal endeavors.", "credits": "3"}, "PHL210": {"title": "Introduction to Philosophy", "description": "This course provides a general introduction to the big questions of philosophy, including questions of existence, knowledge, freedom and meaning.  The purpose of the course is to introduce students to great thinkers and theories while engaging them in the exploration of the same beginning questions applied to contemporary issues.  ", "credits": "3"}, "PHL212": {"title": "Introduction to Ethics", "description": "This course introduces students to ethical theory or the study of how people make decisions about how to treat one another.  It emphasizes the historical and theoretical development of answers to such questions as:  What kind of a person do I want to be  and How do we figure out what the right thing to do is", "credits": "3"}, "PHL214": {"title": "Formal Logic", "description": "This course is a study of the fundamental principles of correct and incorrect argument, historical forms of deductive logic, and the significance of language and clear verbalization. ", "credits": "3"}, "PHL230": {"title": "Religions of the World", "description": "This course reviews the emergence of various belief systems and  their differences and similarities.  Students explore the role of religious belief in the course of human history.  Whenever possible, speakers representing various religions are invited to the class. Special emphasis is given to the five major religions: Hinduism, Buddhism, Judaism, Christianity and Islam.", "credits": "3"}, "PHL246": {"title": "Understanding Non-Western Philosophy", "description": "This course, which focuses on classics from non-Western traditions, is meant to enrich students' understanding of philosophical works that have shaped entire cultures.  Selections are drawn from the literary, religious and philosophical works of Africa and western, southern and eastern Asia, giving students a greater appreciation of the contemporary world and basic philosophical issues.", "credits": "3"}, "PHL316": {"title": "Business Ethics", "description": "This course is a philosophical study of moral issues in business.  Topics include corporate responsibility, conflicts of interest, morality in advertising, preferential hiring (e.g., minorities and women), personal morality versus employer loyalty, and cultural theoretical issues and their impact on business decisions.  ", "credits": "3"}, "PHL363": {"title": "Environmental Ethics", "description": "This course analyzes the application of ethical theory to moral questions about the environment. A number of different traditions in environmental ethics will be discussed and their strengths and weaknesses evaluated by applying them to practical moral problems.  ", "credits": "3"}}, "Physics / Atomic Physics": {"PHY101": {"title": "Principles of Physics", "description": "Principles of Physics is an algebra based course that explores the major topics in physics, such as  motion and forces, gravity and projectiles, energy and work, thermodynamics, vibrations and waves, electricity and magnetism, solids and fluids, light and optics, and atomic and nuclear physics. ", "credits": "3"}, "PHY101L": {"title": "Principles of Physics Lab", "description": "This course will use laboratory techniques to study the fundamental principles of physics. Topics such as motion and forces, gravity and projectiles, and energy and work will be covered along with other topics important to physics.", "credits": "1"}, "PHY103": {"title": "Earth System Science", "description": "Earth Science presents the basic dynamics of cycles and processes of the Earth, including an overview of the origin of the planet, its physical and chemical composition, and geological and chemical interactions.  The course culminates in a discussion of the current health of the planet and examines related environmental issues and evidence.", "credits": "3"}, "PHY105": {"title": "Geology", "description": "This course surveys the major themes in geology.  Students will examine topics such as plate tectonics, the rock cycle, surface processes, and concept of geologic time.", "credits": "3"}, "PHY205": {"title": "Principles of Geology", "description": "This course will introduce students to the Earth's structure and composition, minerals and rocks, surface processes, elementary petrology, and the principle of plate tectonics.  Additionally, historical geology, including paleontology, glaciation, earthquakes and seismology, rivers and drainage, and groundwater will be discussed. ", "credits": "3"}, "PHY205L": {"title": "Principles of Geology Lab", "description": "This online laboratory course component will allow students to integrate and apply theory based knowledge related to the study of rocks, minerals, and geologic mapping.", "credits": "1"}}, "Political Science": {"POL210": {"title": "American Politics", "description": "This course offers a broad introduction to the structure and function of the American political system at the national level, including the roles played by the president, Congress, the courts, the bureaucracy, political parties, interest groups and the mass media in the policy- making and electoral processes.  This course places special emphasis on how the efforts of the framers of the Constitution to solve what they saw as the political problems of their day continue to shape American national politics in ours.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is U.S. Politics"}, "POL211": {"title": "International Relations", "description": "This course offers a broad introduction to the study and practice of international relations, including the roles played by states and nations, non-state actors, national interests, power, morality and international law.  This course places special emphasis on realism and idealism as alternative approaches to the study and practice of international relations and on their implications for ongoing efforts to construct a peaceful and prosperous global political system in the aftermath of the Cold War.", "credits": "3"}, "POL309": {"title": "American State and Local Government", "description": "Many political issues in the United States, such as education, public safety, environmental protection, and transportation, are first handled and addressed by state and local governments. This course explores the structure, function, and distribution of power between state and local governments and the federal government of the United States. Particular emphasis is placed on the necessary collaboration of state and local governments and their roles as partners with the federal government in effecting improvements in policies and services as well as the exploration of the legal and constitutional relationships between state and local governments. ", "credits": "3"}, "POL313": {"title": "Political Theory and Applications", "description": "This course covers the study of the conceptual foundations of political systems and behavior including the historical contributions of Western political theorists toward critically analyzing contemporary political institutions and ideas. Special emphasis is placed on exploring how the social and cultural contexts in which these theorists lived and worked helped to shape their political ideas. ", "credits": "3"}, "POL327": {"title": "US Government and Contemporary Issues", "description": "This course extends upon the foundational American politics course. Special emphasis is placed on watershed moments in U.S. political history that have shaped policies and practices today. Students will be asked to focus a critical eye toward governing in today's world by assessing the current political climate and current policies in the interest of identifying and applying possible solutions.", "credits": "3"}, "POL328": {"title": "The Legal System in America", "description": "This course is a foundational overview of the court and judicial systems, major laws in United States political history, and the lawmaking and amendment process. While an overview of major laws will be covered in the course, students will be asked to assess the legal system in general terms to recognize patterns in civil liberties, judicial interpretations, and judicial activism. A specific focus on how social movements and public opinion have influenced court decisions will also be included.", "credits": "3"}, "POL360": {"title": "Introduction to Comparative Politics", "description": "This course examines the development of different political systems including the relationship between factors (culture, economics, geography, etc.) that influence political development and national identity. Students will study key components of what separates political systems from one another, as well as differences within individual political systems and how they are applied by different nations. Special attention will be paid to understanding how democratic nations vary in their political institutions (legislative, judicial, executive) and how these applications influence public policy and how countries are viewed by one another. ", "credits": "3"}, "POL364": {"title": "Globalization and World Politics", "description": "This course is an exploration of globalization and how it relates to political systems, economic systems, technology, culture, and participation/activism in government. Students will be introduced to concepts of war and peace, terrorism, nationalism, etc., and how these issues affect and intersect with policy regarding international relations. Contemporary issues in globalization will be explored and analyzed for efficacy.", "credits": "3"}, "POL370": {"title": "Analysis and Research in Political Science", "description": "In this course, students will examine applied aspects of research methods and statistical analysis that are commonly utilized in political science research. Through case studies utilizing contemporary issues, students will investigate procedures used to gather and analyze data, provide analysis and conclusions based on social scientific inquiry, and acquire real-world skills required to design and conduct research in the field of political science.", "credits": "3"}, "POL371": {"title": "Political Parties and Interest Groups", "description": "Political parties and interest groups play a critical function as mediators between citizens and government. The effectiveness of various groups in representing citizen interests and influencing voting behavior is a central question of this course. Students will examine political parties, interest groups, voting blocks, activist groups, and special interest mobilization from an applied approach, analyzing the ways these groups have influenced voting trends and participation with the goal of improving civic engagement. ", "credits": "3"}, "POL372": {"title": "Campaign Finance and Fundraising", "description": "Financing a successful campaign requires dedicated fundraising at the beginning, middle, end and every stage in between. It is increasingly important that all members of a campaign understand the importance of fundraising and the regulations around campaign finance. This course takes these topics head on and introduces students to successful fundraising tactics, the role money has played in campaigns, elections, and policy development, and the key laws and regulations around campaign finance.", "credits": "3"}, "POL374": {"title": "Campaign Organizing and Mobilization", "description": "This course provides students with opportunities to both investigate successful strategies of historical and contemporary campaigns as well as pragmatically develop their own best practices for campaign leadership and management. The course introduces students to advanced concepts in campaign organizing such as mobilization, volunteer development, voter targeting, technology tools and systems for organizing, grassroots organizing, and messaging, among others.", "credits": "3"}, "POL491": {"title": "Political Science Capstone Experience", "description": "This capstone course is the culminating experience for the B.S. in Political Science program. The aim of the capstone is to assess students' ability to synthesize and integrate the knowledge and skills they have developed throughout their coursework, rather than introducing new concepts. This course is structured to support student success in fulfilling program requirements.", "credits": "3"}, "POL500": {"title": "Research and Analysis in Political Science", "description": "Political science emphasizes the use of research and data to propose and promote positive changes to public policy. In this course, students will examine a variety of contemporary political challenges and issues through the lens of the public good. Students will be asked to conduct research on and propose solutions for common issues that effectively address the issue in a non-partisan manner while using various research methods and tools used across the field of political science. ", "credits": "3"}, "POL510": {"title": "The Study and Practice of Political Science", "description": "This course introduces students to graduate-level study of political science including foundational concepts and approaches to the discipline. Students will explore the contemporary role of political science in the United States, common theoretical lenses and methodologies used to study political science, and use of empirical data and research to address problems across the various domains relevant to political science and public policy. ", "credits": "3"}, "POL520": {"title": "American Governmental Institutions", "description": "This course focuses on the analysis of key actors in U.S. politics including the presidency, Congress, the judiciary, interest groups, and political parties. Emphasis is also placed on the interaction among the various institutional actors and the influence that internal and external processes, the electorate, and governmental and nongovernmental organizations have on the political system. The course takes a case-study approach to the study of American institutions by examining critical historical developments that have influenced and are reflected by modern governance in the United States. ", "credits": "3"}, "POL530": {"title": "Contemporary Political Thought", "description": "Contemporary political thought is heavily informed by specific philosophies and ideologies. In this course, students will discern how various political platforms and policies reflect specific political philosophies, as well as the effects of competing philosophies on public processes, policies, and dialogue. Topics covered include pluralism, the role of national and state government, the role of the individual in a democratic society, extremism, justice, and power. ", "credits": "3"}, "POL540": {"title": "Global Political Systems", "description": "This course examines the functions, behaviors, policies, and roles of various global political systems at the national, international, and transnational levels. Students will analyze the goals of foreign policies, internal conflicts and their reflection on national and international interests, geopolitics and environmental protections, the efficacy of international organizations and diplomacy, and the bearing of these elements on contemporary issues on the international stage.", "credits": "3"}, "POL550": {"title": "Political Parties, Interest Groups, and Lobbying", "description": "Political parties, interest groups, and the mass media have been characterized as the \"transmission belts\" that connect politicians to the public, as well as a vehicle for achieving political objectives. In this course, students will examine how these groups differ in their role and approaches and how they affect public opinion and political decision making. Topics include the history and development of political parties and interest groups, their relationship with governmental and non-governmental institutions, and how they have influenced and are influenced by an ever-changing political landscape.", "credits": "3"}, "POL612": {"title": "State, Local, and Urban Politics", "description": "State and local governments play an important role in the formation and implementation of public policies. In truth, state and local governments have a larger effect on the daily lives of most U.S. citizens than the Federal government. This course examines the politics, institutions, and policy processes of state and local governments. Topics covered include large urban settings where larger social, political, and economic demands and constraints lead to more complex and dynamic political systems in comparison to rural settings which have much different issues to contend with.", "credits": "3"}, "POL614": {"title": "The Politics of Marginalization", "description": "This course is designed to familiarize students with the processes whereby individuals, groups, or communities may become disenfranchised from opportunities within society as well as the modes of power available for various minority communities. Topics include the study of political theory and policy regarding access to resources based on factors such as social class, education, race, and gender, among others. Specific focus will be made on developing strategies for avoiding exclusionary practices in the public realm.", "credits": "3"}, "POL632": {"title": "Campaign Management", "description": "The campaign management course involves a study of the strategic processes by which campaign decisions are made including planning, development, roles and responsibilities of team members, execution, implementation, and analysis of field data.  Students will take both a theoretical approach as well as develop action plans for hypothetical campaigns. This course prepares students to develop the strategic tools necessary for campaign leadership and management through an examination of lessons learned in effective and non-effective campaigns. ", "credits": "3"}, "POL634": {"title": "Campaigns, Elections, and Strategic Messaging", "description": "This course involves an integrated and advanced study in historical and contemporary theoretical approaches to campaigns and elections. Topics for investigation include fundraising, recruitment and capacity planning, use of various communication tools such as social media, long-term strategies of staying on message, and analyzing audience and public speaking scenarios, among others. Emphasis will be placed on the impact of these factors on how messages are interpreted through historical case studies. Students will also be engaged in recommending strategies for addressing these concerns.", "credits": "3"}, "POL790": {"title": "Capstone in Political Science", "description": "This capstone course is the culminating experience for the M.S. in Political Science program. The aim of the capstone is to assess students' ability to synthesize and integrate the knowledge and skills they have developed throughout their coursework, rather than introducing new concepts. This course is structured to support student success in fulfilling program requirements.", "credits": "3"}}, "Psychology": {"PSY108": {"title": "Introduction to Psychology", "description": "This course provides students an introduction to the scientific study of behavior and mental processes. Students prepare for more advanced concepts in upper-level Psychology courses by learning the basics of how to evaluate research and exploring various areas of specialization within the discipline. ", "credits": "3"}, "PSY200": {"title": "Foundations of Addictions", "description": "This course introduces students to various types of addictive behaviors as well as their causes and consequences in relation to the individual, family, community, and society. It includes an overview of theories on addiction and approaches to identification, prevention, and treatment.", "credits": "3"}, "PSY201": {"title": "Educational Psychology", "description": "This course emphasizes the nature of human learning, with a study of the concepts of readiness, motivation, retention, individual differences, development, reasoning and measurement in relation to the learning process. Consideration of the psychological principles of testing and learning technology are also emphasized.  Writing intensive course.", "credits": "3"}, "PSY205": {"title": "Forensic Psychology", "description": "Students will learn how psychology, as a science and a practice, applies to questions and issues relating to law and the legal system. Emphasis will be placed on witness testimony and the social psychology of the courtroom. Topics will include recovered memories, adolescent violence and murder, strategies for interviewing witnesses, expert testimony, and factors influencing the credibility of witnesses, victims and offenders.", "credits": "3"}, "PSY211": {"title": "Lifespan Development", "description": "The purpose of this course is to engage students in meaningful exploration of theories, basic concepts, and research methodologies in psychological development. Students will gain an understanding of patterns of human development from conception through death, including the biological, cognitive, and social-emotional development and the interplay between these areas. This course will also explore the roles of environmental and genetic factors, culture and history, continuity and change in development. ", "credits": "3"}, "PSY215": {"title": "Abnormal Psychology", "description": "This course offers students an opportunity to better understand human behavior.  It also studies the similarities and differences between normal and abnormal reactions to environmental stimuli.", "credits": "3"}, "PSY216": {"title": "Psychology of Personality", "description": "Personality is studied using theories, applications, and individual and group patterns of behavior formation.  ", "credits": "3"}, "PSY223": {"title": "Research I: Statistics for Psychology", "description": "How do psychologists organize, summarize, and interpret information Students in this course study applications of statistical methods in psychological research and practice. The emphasis of the course is on the conceptual understanding of statistics so that students can read and conduct psychological research; those skills will be applied to students' original projects in PSY224 - Research II: Scientific Investigations. Computation of tests will be conducted on the computer. Students will build upon statistical knowledge and develop an in-depth conceptual and practical understanding of hypothesis testing, tests of significance, standardization, correlation, and analysis of variance in a wide variety of psychological uses. Students will learn the theory of statistical decisions, practical application of statistical software, and how to analyze journal articles. This course typically should be completed during the first semester of the sophomore year.", "credits": "3"}, "PSY224": {"title": "Research II: Scientific Investigations", "description": "Students in this course will develop an understanding of a variety of research methods, including experimental, survey, correlation and case-history techniques.  They will become aware of the strengths and weaknesses of each method and understand when each method is best used.  Writing intensive course.", "credits": "3"}, "PSY225": {"title": "Health Psychology", "description": "This course introduces students to the field of health psychology through an exploration of ways in which the biopsychosocial (holistic) model is applied to promote health and improve coping with illness.  Topics include health beliefs and behaviors, delay in seeking medical care, factors influencing individuals' responses to the health care system and practitioners, acute and chronic illness, treatment adherence, pain and pain management, stress and coping, social support and psychoneuroimmunology. ", "credits": "3"}, "PSY226": {"title": "Sport Psychology", "description": "The course offers an in-depth examination of the major psychological issues associated with athletic competition.  Topics include motivation, anxiety, aggression, commitment, self-control, leadership and excellence.  While using athletic competition as its focus, the course also established the relationship between athletic competition and the pursuit of excellence in any human endeavor.  This course also has a significant research component designed to help students develop a sound understanding of the research methodology that supports theories of athletic competition.", "credits": "3"}, "PSY230": {"title": "Psychology of Individual Differences and Special Needs", "description": "This course provides knowledge and understanding of exceptional children and adolescents. The approach is theoretical and practical.", "credits": "3"}, "PSY257": {"title": "Social Psychology", "description": "Social psychology is an interesting, dynamic study of how people's thoughts, feelings and actions are affected by others. Issues discussed include prejudice, conformity, interpersonal attraction and violence. The scientific methods of studying such phenomena are emphasized.", "credits": "3"}, "PSY258": {"title": "Industrial Organizational Psychology", "description": "Industrial/Organizational Psychology is an applied field in psychology focused to improve the effectiveness of the workplace through research, assessment and interventions allowing for enhancement of the office climate, improvement of group and individual performance and overall organizational goals.  I/O psychologists work in a wide variety of organizational settings including human resource agencies, professional administration, marketing, consulting, training and development, and university teaching.", "credits": "3"}, "PSY300": {"title": "Biopsychology", "description": "This course explores how the brain influences our behaviors, thoughts, and feelings.  Topics include:  evolution, genetics, anatomy and function of the nervous system, psychopharmacology, brain dysfunction, neuropsychological testing, sleep and circadian rhythms, neuroplasticity, emotions, and mental illness.", "credits": "3"}, "PSY305": {"title": "Cognitive Psychology", "description": "Cognitive psychology focuses on mental processes; we explore research and theory relating to memory, thinking, problem-solving, and language.  Applied topics will include learning skills to help improve memory, accommodating memory/language disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease and dyslexia, and understanding how brain scanning techniques can be used to understand memory.", "credits": "3"}, "PSY307": {"title": "Sensation and Perception", "description": "This course will be an exploration of how we come to know the world through our visual experiences and how those experiences are shaped by prior knowledge, context, and ideas.  As such we will cover neurobiological aspects of sensation pertaining to the eye and the brain, and we will cover aspects of higher-order perceptual phenomena, such as object-perception, color, motion, illusions, and representation and art. Students should gain an appreciation for and conversance in the empirical and philosophical complexity of visual experience.", "credits": "3"}, "PSY310": {"title": "Criminal Psychology", "description": "This course will provide the student with insights about crime from a psychological perspective. Specifically, the course will focus on how a criminal offender is influenced by multiple systems within the psychosocial environment.  This course examines and evaluates the role of psychological factors in understanding the motives behind antisocial acts.  Throughout the course, students will acquire knowledge and practice in the application of psychological methods to understanding criminal behavior.", "credits": "3"}, "PSY314": {"title": "Disorders of Childhood and Adolescence", "description": "This course focuses specifically on an introduction to the classification of disorders of childhood and adolescence and the treatment approaches that currently are available. Knowledge students obtain in PSY 314 is essential for understanding the etiology and manifestation of these disorders, as well as the impact on the individual, family and society. Current field research and case studies will be used.  ", "credits": "3"}, "PSY315": {"title": "Counseling Process and Techniques", "description": "This course examines the history and philosophy of specific helping professions in the fields of psychology, sociology and human services. Several broad theoretical perspectives will be studied and applied in role-play situations.", "credits": "3"}, "PSY319": {"title": "Social Development: Child and Adolescent", "description": "The purpose of this course is to expose students to theory and research concerning infants', children's, and adolescents' social and personality development.  This course will focus on how individuals become members of their social world, including how we conceptualize the social world, interact with parents and caretakers, develop social relationships with peers, and interpret, analyze, and respond to cultural messages and ideologies.  We will discuss these issues through analysis of the theoretical and research literature.", "credits": "3"}, "PSY321": {"title": "Child Development", "description": "This course focuses on psychological development from infancy through late childhood. Research and theoretical perspectives will be used to help students understand contemporary issues and themes central to childhood development, including: biological, cognitive, and social-emotional characteristics of development and the interplay between them.", "credits": "3"}, "PSY322": {"title": "Adolescent Development", "description": "Adolescence is a fascinating time of life because of the many psychological and physical changes that occur, as well as the cultural and historical issues surrounding these changes.  This course focuses on psychological development from pre-adolescence through adolescence and into  emerging adulthood. Research and theoretical perspectives will be used to help students understand contemporary issues and themes central to adolescent development, including:  puberty, cognition, morality, identity, relationships, sexuality, school, work, culture, and challenges faced by adolescents and emerging adults.  Adolescence will be discussed both as a distinct stage of life, and as an integral component of development across the life span.", "credits": "3"}, "PSY323": {"title": "Psychology of Gender", "description": "This course explores gender differences from a social psychological perspective. Students will consider individual, interpersonal, and cultural influences on gender similarities and differences in behavior. The course includes a review of theory, research, and applications in the psychology of gender. ", "credits": "3"}, "PSY324": {"title": "Cross-Cultural Psychology", "description": "This course examines psychological issues in various cultural contexts and explores how ethnic and cultural backgrounds influence patterns of human thought and behavior. The course includes a focus on the psychological dynamics involved in the formation and reduction of prejudices, discrimination, and stereotyping. ", "credits": "3"}, "PSY326": {"title": "Social Cognition and Perception", "description": "This course investigates how people make sense of the social world. Students will examine how social factors influence how people perceive and interact with information collected from the environment and how these mental processes affect judgments and decision-making.", "credits": "3"}, "PSY327": {"title": "Social Influence", "description": "This course explores the research and theories related to how people influence and are influenced by their social environment at the individual, interpersonal, and societal levels. Students will explore concepts including attitudes, conformity, obedience, attraction, social categories, and norms. ", "credits": "3"}, "PSY331": {"title": "Human Sexuality", "description": "This course deals with sex as it relates to the individual, family, group and society.  While this is a psychology course, some techniques and knowledge from the biological and social sciences and the humanities are used.  Academic achievement and the development of personal insights are the expected results of this course.  ", "credits": "3"}, "PSY335": {"title": "Assessment and Testing", "description": "Students in this course will become aware of the use and abuse of psychometric techniques. Specific techniques that currently are used will be introduced and understood.  While knowledge about specific tests may be somewhat limited, students will obtain knowledge and the types of tests and techniques available.  ", "credits": "3"}, "PSY405": {"title": "Contemporary Issues in Social Psychology", "description": "This course focuses on recent advances in both basic and applied research in social psychology. Students will apply their knowledge and skills to current issues in social psychology.", "credits": "3"}, "PSY406": {"title": "Contemporary Issues in Addictions", "description": "This course focuses on current research, issues, and trends related to addictive behaviors. Students will also examine ethical/moral issues to be anticipated within the addictions field.", "credits": "3"}, "PSY407": {"title": "Contemporary Issues in Applied Psychology", "description": "This course focuses on recent advances in applied psychology and ethical debates in the field. Students will apply their knowledge and skills toward current issues within their selected area of interest in psychology.", "credits": "3"}, "PSY442": {"title": "Community Psychology", "description": "Community Psychology as a discipline and as professional practice is continually changing - it is the understanding that context matters. This course will encourage students to contribute to this body of applied knowledge. Social issues, community support systems, and policies and interventions that foster collective and individual wellness are the focus of this interactive and interdisciplinary subject. ", "credits": "3"}, "PSY444": {"title": "Senior Seminar in Psychology (Capstone)", "description": "This capstone course integrates previous classroom and practical experience with a focus on current issues in psychology.  This course likely will include cross-cultural aspects of psychology, ethics, recent career trends in psychology and other topics dictated by current events in psychology.  Coverage may change over time, but the basic focus on integrating the past and anticipating the future for psychology seniors will be the major concern.  Writing Intensive Course.", "credits": "3"}, "PSY500": {"title": "Foundations of Psychology", "description": "This course prepares students for graduate study in psychology, with a focus on honing and applying writing, analytical thinking, and critical reading skills. It provides an overview of the field of psychology as a science and a profession. Students evaluate the key concepts and theoretical perspectives that have shaped the field, as well as contemporary issues.", "credits": "3"}, "PSY510": {"title": "Research Methods in Psychology I", "description": "In this course, students will learn methods commonly used in psychological research. As part of these methods, students learn how to gather and analyze data across a variety of settings. These newly acquired skills and techniques will be reinforced by application to a contemporary issue in psychology.", "credits": "3"}, "PSY520": {"title": "Research Methods in Psychology II", "description": "In this course, students will develop a deeper understanding of the research process and data analysis by applying skills learned in Research Methods in Psychology I and building on them with new skills and techniques including advanced research design and use/interpretation of higher-level statistical tests (ANOVA, regression, etc.). These newly acquired skills and techniques will be reinforced by application to a contemporary issue in psychology.", "credits": "3"}, "PSY530": {"title": "Social Psychology", "description": "The focus of this course is on contemporary social psychology issues and research related to people's interactions with the environment, technology, and society, as well as classic studies and theories in the field-including those related to conformity, obedience, identity, and attitudes that remain relevant. Students will evaluate the perspectives, relevancy, and usefulness of social psychology to real world issues and problems.", "credits": "3"}, "PSY540": {"title": "Cognitive Processes", "description": "Students will investigate topics in cognitive psychology, including memory, language, attention, learning, and decision-making. Students will evaluate the perspectives, relevancy, and usefulness of cognitive psychology to real world issues and problems.", "credits": "3"}, "PSY545": {"title": "Forensic Psychology", "description": "This course provides candidates with foundational knowledge of the forensic psychology field, including its historical roots and current trends with a focus on the evolution of practical and research based approaches in clinical settings. Candidates will also explore specific forensic psychology specialty areas and how the roles and responsibilities unfold related to legal, ethical, and diversity issues.", "credits": "3"}, "PSY550": {"title": "Measurement and Assessment", "description": "Learn and apply psychometric techniques commonly used in psychology. Explore measurement techniques and strategies used in the development and administration of psychological tests and assessments. Analyze and assess test and assessment results. Examine the ethical issues related to test and assessment administration and interpretation. ", "credits": "3"}, "PSY560": {"title": "Theories of Personality", "description": "This course will emphasize contemporary theories, research, and approaches in personality psychology, connecting these to classic theorists such as Freud as well as other historical traditions and perspectives. The past and present impact of these theories within the ever-changing field of psychology will be explored, as well as the impact they have on culturally diverse clients and special populations.", "credits": "3"}, "PSY570": {"title": "Ethical Practice in Psychology", "description": "This course provides a comprehensive overview of the principles of ethical practice within the field of psychology. Topics include experimentation, confidentiality, respect, resolving ethical dilemmas, professional standards of conduct, and the psychology of ethical behavior.", "credits": "3"}, "PSY612": {"title": "Motivation in the Workplace", "description": "This course will cover the psychological theories of motivation and their relevance to the workplace and wider field of industrial-organizational psychology. Students will explore factors that motivate individuals in organizational settings, strategies to identify motivation problems, and ways to address those issues using psychological techniques. Emphasis will be placed on the practical application of motivational theories to affect change for diverse populations.", "credits": "3"}, "PSY614": {"title": "Psychology of Leadership", "description": "This course combines theory and practice to address contemporary issues and connects them to psychological theories in the field of organizational leadership. It will utilize research, case studies, and real-world situations to illustrate how psychological practices can be used in assessing and improving leadership in organizations. Students will construct a foundation for their personal leadership style with the understanding that it can and should evolve over time.", "credits": "3"}, "PSY616": {"title": "Organizational Consulting", "description": "This course will explore the relevant skills needed for a successful organizational consultation by an industrial organizational psychologist. Students will examine the process for diagnosing an organization using psychological methods (measurement), developing a strategy to address any issues (assessment), and practically carrying out that plan (application). Emphasis will be given to the need for ethical standards and the importance of professional responsibility in consulting. ", "credits": "3"}, "PSY618": {"title": "Seminar in Industrial & Organizational Psychology", "description": "This course is a culmination of the student's work in industrial organizational psychology. It will bring together the skills learned in the previous courses and requires that students demonstrate their proficiency in the areas of motivation, organizational leadership, and consulting. Therefore, students will synthesize information to develop a more sophisticated and integrated approach to industrial-organizational issues and problems.", "credits": "3"}, "PSY622": {"title": "Assessment for Forensic Psychology", "description": "This course introduces candidates to topics in forensic assessment, including historical context, relevant theories, techniques, tools, and procedures. Candidates will analyze criminal justice, family and child custodial law, and pathology-based case study based data sets using contemporary assessment approaches to gain practical insights. Candidates will be required to consider ethical, multicultural, and age-based variables while interpreting case-based results. ", "credits": "3"}, "PSY624": {"title": "Intersection of Law and Psychology", "description": "This course focuses on the crossroads at which the legal system and psychology meet. The forensic psychologist's roles and challenges within the legal system will be covered as well as ethical dilemmas. Candidates will explore how psychologists can impact court proceedings with respect to providing expert testimony and determining mental states of the witnesses or the accused. Candidates will also review U.S. Supreme Court cases that influence current policies that impact the mental and physical well-being of incarcerated persons.", "credits": "3"}, "PSY626": {"title": "Psychology in the Courtroom", "description": "This course is a seminar in which candidates will synthesize their learning from the three previous concentration courses to gain a full understanding of the forensic psychologist's roles as trial consultant, jury selection, and assessing eyewitness account integrity in the courtroom. Students will demonstrate mastery of concentration content through a comprehensive project.", "credits": "3"}, "PSY632": {"title": "Developmental Psychology", "description": "Research and theoretical perspectives are used to help students understand contemporary topics central to childhood and adolescent development, including cognition, biology, social factors, and emotions. Students will evaluate the perspectives, relevancy, and usefulness of developmental psychology to real world issues and problems.", "credits": "3"}, "PSY634": {"title": "Cognitive Neuropsychology", "description": "This course covers the neuropsychological approach in examining the connection between the brain and cognitive processes, as well as dysfunctions, from birth to adolescence. It will explore the techniques used to study the brain and behavior as well as contemporary research and issues in the field.", "credits": "3"}, "PSY636": {"title": "Intervention Strategies", "description": "This course introduces students to the major intervention strategies in child and adolescent development. Contemporary strategies will be covered, and traditional approaches and strategies of the field will be examined as needed. Students will also practice applications of the strategies to real-world scenarios.", "credits": "3"}, "PSY638": {"title": "Child and Developmental Psychology Seminar", "description": "This course is a culmination of the student's work in child and adolescent psychology. It will bring together the skills and knowledge learned in the previous courses and requires that students demonstrate their proficiency in the areas of developmental psychology, cognitive neuropsychology, and intervention strategies.", "credits": "3"}, "PSY790": {"title": "Capstone in Psychology", "description": "This capstone course is the culminating experience for the M.S. in Psychology program. The aim of the capstone is to assess students' ability to synthesize and integrate the knowledge and skills they have developed throughout their coursework, rather than introducing new concepts. This course is structured to support student success in fulfilling program requirements.", "credits": "3"}}, "Public Administration": {"PAD330": {"title": "Public Administration", "description": "This course is designed to introduce students to the basics of public administration and set context around contemporary political, social, economic, and administrative realities. It explores public service organizations, governance, public policies, and institutional-based programs. It also examines, from a multidisciplinary perspective, those essential competencies, values and issues important to public policy at the local, state, national and international levels.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Public Administration"}, "PAD331": {"title": "Public Administrative Ethics and Theory", "description": "This course will examine the underlying theories of public administration and their impact on community goal achievement. Students will examine supervisory and leadership behaviors in public administration and consider the ethical implications of public administration.", "credits": "3"}, "PAD332": {"title": "Municipal Government Operations", "description": "This course will examine the functions, hierarchy and management of various local government departments. Students will learn the interrelationship of various community departments as well as the roles of leadership and community boards within local government.", "credits": "3"}, "PAD340": {"title": "Public Fiscal Management", "description": "This course will analyze methods of securing public funds, the process of budget makings, and the techniques used by government and public administration in managing public funds.", "credits": "3"}, "PAD341": {"title": "Disaster Recovery and Response", "description": "This course will examine government and community behaviors, responses and recovery efforts following emergencies and disasters. Specific emphasis will be place of service delivery models and strategies, coordination of assistant services, and the dynamics of the recovery process. ", "credits": "3"}, "PAD345": {"title": "Policy Analysis and the Role of the Public", "description": "Explore the role of policy in the community, how the public influences policy, and the impact of policy on decision-making. Learn the stages of the public policy process and how the public\u2019s involvement in policy making has evolved. Develop techniques for managing and interacting with the public.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Policy Analysis and the Role of the Public"}, "PAD410": {"title": "Program Evaluation and Accountability", "description": "Learn the six steps of program development and evaluation, including designing program evaluation processes to measure outcomes and analyzing data to assess program success. Create purpose-driven communications to gain support for programs, disseminate program information, and report to stakeholders. ", "credits": "3"}, "PAD630": {"title": "Foundations of Public Administration", "description": "This course is designed to introduce students to the foundations and constraints that form the environment of the public administration. It will encourage and enable the view of governance issues through the eyes of a public administrator.  The course is structured to provide basic skills and set the context of contemporary political, social, economic, and administrative realities.  It explores responsive, equitable, effective, efficient, and accountable governance processes, public policies, and institutional-based programs. It also examines, from a multidisciplinary perspective, those essential competencies, values, and issues important to public service organizations and the importance of public policy at the local, state, national and international levels.", "credits": "3"}, "PAD631": {"title": "Strategic Management in Public Service", "description": "This course is designed to provide an academic foundation to applied strategic management in public service.  Identifying the factors that differentiate public service from the private sector, strategic planning and the implications those differences have for managers.  Emphasis is placed on applied strategic planning and management including how to create a mission statement, conduct a SWOT analysis, conduct a stakeholder analysis, writing goals and objectives, and how to design and implement a performance measurement and management system. Current approaches to strategic management used by federal, state, local, and non-profit organizations are emphasized.", "credits": "3"}, "PAD632": {"title": "Foundations of Public Policy", "description": "This course is an introduction to the public policy process.  Students will develop an understanding of what \"political\" and \"public policy\" mean.  Topics discussed include why some problems reach the public agenda, why some solutions are adopted, why others are rejected, why some policies appear to succeed while others appear to fail.  The course also examines the complexity of policymaking at the national, state, and local levels.", "credits": "3"}, "PAD633": {"title": "Intergovernmental Relations", "description": "This course is designed to demonstrate the challenges and strategies for governance and administration in an institutional environment of fragmented authority and dispersed power.  It defines the balance of shared powers between the layers and institutions of government poses and the considerable challenges to policymakers and administrators.  Major dimensions of intergovernmental relations:  the vertical dimension of federal, states, and local governments, that cooperate, coordinate, and compete for shares of power, and the horizontal dimension in which sub-governments interact with one another.  The course examines the structure of American political institutions, the nature of complex policymaking, governance by networks, and the consequences of competition between governments.", "credits": "3"}}, "Public Health": {"PHE101": {"title": "Fundamentals of Public Health", "description": "This course introduces students to the field of public health: its historical evolution, fundamental theories, concepts and practice in the US, and its core values and ethical principles. The structure of the public health system, the ten essential services, and the core knowledge areas (epidemiology, biostatistics, social and behavioral sciences, environmental health, and healthcare policy and administration) are outlined in order for students to comprehend the breadth of complex factors impacting health and the tools available to protect and promote health.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Global Healthcare Perspectives"}, "PHE321": {"title": "Biological Concepts for Public Health", "description": "This course explores the major determinants of human disease from an integrated ecological perspective that brings together population-based approaches to the study of infectious disease and genetically determined diseases. Students learn about how infectious diseases are transmitted, risk factors and biological processes for common diseases, and the impact of these and control strategies on public health. ", "credits": "3"}, "PHE327": {"title": "Research and Assessment in Public Health", "description": "Students in this class will develop the introductory knowledge and skills to apply assessment instruments, data collection, research designs, and statistical analysis to assess need, assets, and capacity for health education programs.  Existing data sets will be introduced that will increase access to information to develop and implement health promotion projects that are fiscally feasible while meeting specific health promotion needs of a targeted population.", "credits": "3"}, "PHE330": {"title": "Public Health Education and Communication", "description": "The purpose of this course is to develop communication skills relevant to public health and examine the impact of mass media, social media, and the internet on health outcomes. Communications is a crucial tool in dealing with global public health challenges. Strong communication skills are necessary in the developing effective public health education, sound advocacy and successful policy development and implementation. In addition, the course explores how communication is currently being used by public health organizations and agencies.       ", "credits": "3"}, "PHE340": {"title": "Social and Behavioral Health", "description": "The course provides an overview of the contribution of the social and behavioral sciences to health behavior.  Social and behavioral science fundamentals (principles, theories, research, and techniques) that are employed to address current and past public health problems are examined. Key concepts such culture, race/ethnicity, gender, poverty/disparities, factors related to behavior change, community, organizational climate, family are examined from a social and behavioral sciences perspective.", "credits": "3"}, "PHE423": {"title": "Evaluation Methods in Public Health", "description": "This course will cover contextual issues surrounding evaluation, evaluation designs and methodological issues, steps involved in conducting an evaluation, communicating the results, and ensuring that evaluation findings are used by intended users.", "credits": "3"}, "PHE425": {"title": "Programming Planning in Public Health", "description": "The purpose of this course is to provide basic knowledge in public health sciences, and practical skills to effectively plan, implement, and manage programs that address public health problems in a variety of settings. The course explores key concepts, theories, and methods in planning and implementing successful health promotion programs and healthy public policy.", "credits": "3"}, "PHE489": {"title": "Public Health Capstone Communication", "description": "Taken in the student's final term, the capstone course is the culminating experience for the Bachelor of Science in Public Health. This course builds on the theories and concepts of all courses students have taken within the program of study. The capstone course provides students with the opportunity to integrate and synthesize the knowledge and skills acquired throughout their coursework in an original comprehensive project/paper, while assessing their level of mastery of the stated outcomes of their degree program in public health. In addition, students present their capstone project and reflection on the experience to their instructor and their peers in the course. Students will also post their capstone project and presentation into their e-Portfolio. ", "credits": "3"}, "PHE500": {"title": "Principles of Public Health", "description": "This course is a required, foundational course. It acquaints the student with the history of public health, the structure of the public health system, the ten essentials services, and the core knowledge areas in order to gain an understanding of the complex factors impacting health behaviors in the community. This course is designed to introduce the students to the range of public health professions and to motivate their interests in public health courses. The course also will introduce the development of a professional portfolio.", "credits": "3"}, "PHE505": {"title": "Research Methods in Public Health", "description": "The course introduces students to the basics of research design and methodology in public health. It provides coverage of quantitative and qualitative methods. Topics include: development of a hypothesis, sampling, data collection and structure, survey design and administration, and analytic interpretation. In public health, carefully designed research studies and their results are critical in the development of evidence-based policies, programs, and interventions. Students apply their knowledge acquired in the course by developing a research proposal. Research skills are in high demand by public health employers.", "credits": "3"}, "PHE510": {"title": "Public Health Biology", "description": "This course explores the biological basis of disease. It focuses on the impact of diseases on public health decision-making. The pathogenesis of various disease conditions are covered and how such pathogenesis could either be prevented or interrupted. ", "credits": "3"}, "PHE525": {"title": "Social and Behavioral Sciences", "description": "The course provides a foundation in the application of social and behavioral sciences to public health. Social and behavior theories are examined in terms of understanding health-related behavior and applying these theories to health promotion. The course covers existing social inequalities in health status related to race, social class and gender and the critical intersection between social risk factors, behavioral risk factors and the development and implementation of public health interventions.  ", "credits": "3"}, "PHE540": {"title": "Principles of Environmental Health", "description": "This course offers students an overview of basic concepts in environmental sciences, an understanding of the health impact of various environmental exposures, and the public health approach to controlling and eliminating environmental health risks. The effects of agents on disease, water quality, air quality, food safety, and land resources are explored.", "credits": "3"}, "PHE550": {"title": "Principles of Global Health", "description": "Provides an overview of the history of global health, the diversity of determinants of health and disease, and the importance of ethics and human rights. Examines major global health challenges, contemporary issues, and policies. Topics include: health systems, health disparities, culture and health, nutrition, maternal and child health, infectious and chronic diseases, injuries, and natural disaster and humanitarian relief.", "credits": "3"}, "PHE610": {"title": "Health Policy and Management", "description": "Students in this course examine the health services system in the U. S., the role of healthcare policy and management, and the health delivery system. The recent healthcare reform legislation and its implications are explored. Topics include: the origins of the US healthcare system, health behaviors and disease, the management of health service personnel and organizations.", "credits": "3"}, "PHE630": {"title": "Program Planning and Evaluation in Public Health", "description": "This course explores the key approaches used to conduct and evaluate effective public health programs. Topics include: collection of primary data, analysis of data, presentation of findings for the target audience, and information systems and technology in the planning and evaluation processes. ", "credits": "3"}, "PHE660": {"title": "Global Health Policy, Practice, and Partnerships", "description": "Explore the historical evolution of global health, policies that have shaped the field, and the international community's response to health determinants around the world. Critically analyze the roles and relationships of local, national, and international actors. Students synthesize policy, practice and partnerships, which are essential for improving health in low and middle income countries. ", "credits": "3"}, "PHE665": {"title": "Case Studies in Global Health", "description": "Examine how people, organizations, companies and governments can work together to solve some of the most complex global health issues. Using real-world examples, students examine situations, programs and partnerships and analyze innovative solutions in each presented case. From reducing child mortality to improving health through multifaceted interventions that address multiple determinants of health, students learn how global public health efforts have improved the health of populations, even in the poorest countries, worldwide. ", "credits": "3"}, "PHE680": {"title": "Practical Experience in Public Health Part I", "description": "Succeed working on a real-world public health project under the supervision of the public health instructor, an approved preceptor, and a SNHU Career advisor. Refine developed competencies and skills sets that were introduced in the MPH courses. This course requires a minimum of 60 practical experience hours.", "credits": "3"}, "PHE685": {"title": "Practical Experience in Public Health Part II", "description": "Successfully complete a real-world project initiated in PHE-680 Part I under the supervision of the public health instructor, an approved preceptor, and a career advisor. Refine developed competencies and skills sets that were introduced in the MPH courses.  This course requires a minimum of 60 practical experience hours.", "credits": "3"}, "PHE690": {"title": "Public Health Capstone", "description": "This is the synthesis course of the Master of Science in Public Health program, which allows students the opportunity to apply the theory, principles and science of public health in a capstone project. This culminating experience requires students to synthesize and integrate knowledge and skills acquired throughout coursework in an original comprehensive project, and to assess their level of mastery of the stated outcomes of their degree program in public health. In addition, the students reflect on the experience to their instructor and peers.  ", "credits": "3"}}, "Quantitative Studies & Operations Management": {"QSO300": {"title": "Operations Management", "description": "This course is an introduction to the operations function, which is responsible for the creation of goods and services of the organization.  Students will learn the concepts and techniques used in managing operations in manufacturing and service organizations.", "credits": "3"}, "QSO310": {"title": "Management of Service Operations", "description": "This course is an introduction to the concepts, principles, problems, and practices of successful service operations management.  Emphasis is focused on preparing students to identify and apply appropriate management processes to ensure efficient, effective, and quality oriented service operations, while achieving operational excellence.  Topics covered include:  the role of services in the economy, strategic positioning and internet strategies, environmental strategies, new service development process, managing service expectations, front-office and back-office interface, service quality, yield management, waiting time management, and site selection.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Serve Customers Effectively"}, "QSO320": {"title": "Management Science through Spreadsheets", "description": "Apply management science techniques to analyze data to inform business decisions that align to strategic organizational objectives. ", "credits": "3"}, "QSO322": {"title": "Logistics Management", "description": "This course provides an overview of the field of logistics including its nature, scope, and process, including logistics management functions and the interrelationships among strategic support and operational logistics. Students examine the logistics functions of business involved in the movement and storage of supplies, work-in-progress, and finished goods. Additionally, it explores the trade-offs between cost and service and the purchase and supply of raw materials.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Oversee Logistics"}, "QSO325": {"title": "Continuous Improvement Tools and Techniques", "description": "This course examines continuous improvement tools and techniques used in problem solving supporting sustainable operations. Topics include lean techniques, quality management, TQM, JIT, and product experimental design.  ", "credits": "3"}, "QSO328": {"title": "Sustainable Operations", "description": "This course focuses on manufacturing and service operations control and the importance of making operations decisions that support the long-term sustainability of organizations while meeting the needs of the customers.  Students explore topics such as brand management, closed loop supply chains, competition, environmental management, safety and compliance, and social responsibility. ", "credits": "3"}, "QSO330": {"title": "Supply Chain Management", "description": "This course focuses on effective supply chain strategies for companies that operate globally with emphasis on how to plan and integrate supply chain components into a coordinated system. Students are exposed to concepts and models important in supply chain planning with emphasis on key tradeoffs and phenomena.  The course introduces and utilizes key tactics such as risk pooling and inventory placement, integrated planning and collaboration, and information sharing.", "credits": "3"}, "QSO340": {"title": "Project Management", "description": "As modern organizations have become more complex, they have also become more project-driven.  This course uses a basic project management framework in which the project life-cycle is broken into organizing, planning, monitoring and controlling the project.  You will learn the methodologies and tools necessary at each stage for managing the projects effectively in terms of time, cost, quality, risk and resources.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Project Management in Healthcare"}, "QSO345": {"title": "Project Management for CAPM\u00ae Certification", "description": "This course teaches the five process groups and nine knowledge areas described in the Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK\u00ae) of the Project Management Institute (PMI\u00ae). The course is designed to help students prepare for the Certified Associate in Project Management (CAPM\u00ae) certification exam. However, it neither guarantees to help satisfy the eligibility requirements for taking the CAPM\u00ae certification exam nor ensures success on the CAPM\u00ae certification exam.", "credits": "3"}, "QSO349": {"title": "Project Contracting and Procurement", "description": "This course addresses the process of acquiring products, resources, services, or results from outside the project team. How to plan procurement management, conduct procurements, control procurements, and close procurements is covered.", "credits": "3"}, "QSO355": {"title": "Resource Estimating and Scheduling", "description": "Project managers are responsible for keeping projects on time, on budget, and within scope. This course reviews the critical processes of activity definition, resource estimating, and scheduling.", "credits": "3"}, "QSO360": {"title": "Six Sigma Quality Management", "description": "This course teaches the fundamental tools and techniques used to improve service and manufacturing processes through the Define-Measure-Analyze-Improve-Control (DMAIC) methodology of Six Sigma quality management. Statistical process control, design and analysis of statistical experiments, process mapping, cause-and-effect diagram, 5S methodology, and process waste identification via lean techniques, are the major topics of this course.", "credits": "3"}, "QSO415": {"title": "Trends in Operations Management", "description": "This course focuses on contemporary topics in operations management. Examples of topics that will be explored included assessing and managing disruptive change, agile project management, automation, innovation, and technology trends.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Automation and System Integration"}, "QSO420": {"title": "Integrated Cost and Schedule Control", "description": "This course reviews cost and schedule control techniques that are integrated with project scope as well as overseeing a cost and schedule plan aligned to that scope. The importance of measuring a project's performance using Earned Value Management (EVM) is reviewed.", "credits": "3"}, "QSO425": {"title": "Reverse Logistics", "description": "This course provides students with an overview of today's best practices in reverse logistics. An application perspective is examined in manufacturing, retail and in the military.  Students examine the nature, scope, practices, procedures, and processes of adding a reverse logistics operations center to a forward logistics supply chain.", "credits": "3"}, "QSO435": {"title": "Adaptive Project Management", "description": "Adaptive project management recognizes the nature of changing business processes and goals and the need for iterative techniques to ensure business results are achieved.  Agile frameworks including Scrum are reviewed.     ", "credits": "3"}, "QSO440": {"title": "Topics in Project Management", "description": "This course covers advanced topics in project management such as project risk, project integration, project quality, and project procurement.  Advanced project selection, planning, and control methods of project management are taught with hands-on-applications of Oracle Crystal Ball and MS Project.  Students will learn the knowledge and skills of an experienced project manager by creating a detailed project plan for a real-world project.", "credits": "3"}, "QSO450": {"title": "Transportation Management", "description": "This course provides an overview of the transportation industry to include providers, users, and government agencies. It examines contemporary public policy issues, along with managerial strategies in transportation. Additional focus will be given to micro and macroeconomic issues in the transportation industry. Topics include the economic aspects of rail, water, air, ground, and other transport modes, inventory, and supply.     ", "credits": "3"}, "QSO455": {"title": "Integrated Supply Chain Management", "description": "This course examines key issues associated with the design and management of supply chains. Students examine modern supply chain management practices. Emphasis is placed on the exploration of how to integrate suppliers, factories, warehouses and stores so that products are distributed to customers in the right quantity and at the right time. A key topic area is the service logistics and distribution component of the supply chain.   ", "credits": "3"}, "QSO489": {"title": "Capstone in Operations Management", "description": "This capstone course is the culminating experience for the B.S. in Operations Management program. The aim of the capstone is to assess students\u2019 ability to synthesize and integrate the knowledge and skills they have developed throughout their coursework, rather than introducing new concepts. This course is structured to support student success in fulfilling program requirements.", "credits": "3"}, "QSO490": {"title": "Operations/Project Management Internship", "description": "This course will enable the School of Business undergraduate students to gain valuable work experience within the operations or project environment. The objective is to give the students an opportunity for practical application of operations/project management concepts and techniques learned in the classes and complement the course work. The student must complete a minimum of 150 hours on the internship per 3 credits. Students may complete 0 - 15 credit hours of QSO 490.", "credits": "0 - 15"}, "QSO500": {"title": "Business Research", "description": "This course presents an overview of the various primary and secondary research methodologies used in the business world and the application of statistical techniques to those strategies. The focus of this course is the design and execution of a practical, primary research. It is recommended that this course be one of the first three taken in degree programs in which it is required.", "credits": "3"}, "QSO510": {"title": "Quantitative Analysis for Decision Making", "description": "This is a survey of the mathematical, probabilistic and statistical tools available for assisting in the operation and management of industrial organizations.", "credits": "3"}, "QSO520": {"title": "Management Science through Spreadsheets", "description": "Gain a working knowledge of the most commonly used Management Science/Operations Research techniques for their use in business. Learn how to combine the power of the management science and spreadsheets to recommend solutions for a wide variety of business problems.", "credits": "3"}, "QSO530": {"title": "Applied Statistics for Managers", "description": "This course will provide the students with statistical tools and techniques that will enable them to make an immediate impact in their careers. This course will be realistically oriented and numerous business examples and cases will be analyzed.", "credits": "3"}, "QSO600": {"title": "Operations Management", "description": "This is a study of the concepts of production and operations and of a variety of methods and techniques used in their management.  Background preparation:  6 credit hours in economics.", "credits": "3"}, "QSO610": {"title": "Management of Service Operations", "description": "This course is intended to help students prepare for management opportunities in service firms that represent the fastest-growing sector of the economy.  The material focuses on the role and nature of service operations, and the relationship of operations to other business functions.  The students will develop skills and learn techniques for effective management of service operations.", "credits": "3"}, "QSO620": {"title": "Six Sigma Quality Management", "description": "This course is designed to provide an understanding of the design and implementation of quality control and improvement systems.  It is an introduction to current quality management approaches, statistical quality control and quality improvement techniques.  ISO-9000 also will be discussed.  Case studies and the use of computer technology will be integral to the course.", "credits": "3"}, "QSO625": {"title": "Six Sigma for Black Belt Certification", "description": "This course teaches advanced concepts in Six Sigma while incorporating Lean Management tools. Students learn waste elimination, value stream mapping, Six Sigma roles and responsibilities, team management, and the various elements of the Define-Measure-Analyze-Improve-Control (DMAIC) phases of a Six Sigma project. The Design for Six Sigma (SFSS) approach to design a new process is also reviewed. The course is designed to help students prepare for a Six Sigma Black Belt certification exam. However, it neither guarantees to help satisfy the eligibility requirements for taking a Six Sigma Black Belt certification exam nor ensures success on a Six Sigma Black Belt certification exam.", "credits": "3"}, "QSO630": {"title": "Supply Chain Management", "description": "This course analyses the role and activities of those involved in supply chain management decision making.  It emphasizes the importance of transportation planning, inventory control, warehouse management, development of customer service standards, and procurement in the design and operation of supply and distribution systems. The importance of information systems and the internet in supporting such activities is also discussed.  Special attention is given to the close working relationships with managers in other functional areas including information systems, marketing, and international operations.", "credits": "3"}, "QSO635": {"title": "International Supply Chain Management", "description": "The U.S. economy is becoming increasingly global in nature.  We are marketing and distributing more products in foreign nations, locating plants and other facilities internationally, and are buying from foreign companies.  This course provides a comprehensive understanding of the supply chain management function related to the international environment in terms of business/cultural customs, legal considerations, purchasing strategies, financial aspects, and international distribution.", "credits": "3"}, "QSO640": {"title": "Project Management", "description": "This course includes the study of concepts, tools, and practices of project management.  The course adopts a managerial process approach to Project Management, which consists of initiating, planning, executing, controlling and closing the project.  Major topics will include project scope, project time, project cost, project quality, project risk, project resources, project communications and how to be an effective project manager.  Cases are utilized to integrate the learning in the course and provide decision- making experience for the student.", "credits": "3"}, "QSO645": {"title": "Project Management for PMP\u00ae Certification", "description": "Learn the five process groups and ten knowledge areas that guide project management using A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge, (PMBOK Guide) - Sixth Edition, Project Management Institute, Inc., 2017. Utilize process inputs and outputs, as well as tools and techniques, to effectively plan and manage projects. Explore the professional and social responsibilities of project management.\n\nThe course is designed to help students prepare for the Project Management Professional (PMP) exam. The course satisfies the educational requirement of 35 hours of project management education for the PMP exam. However, it does not guarantee success on the PMP exam (PMP and PMBOK are registered marks of the Project Management Institute, Inc.)", "credits": "3"}, "QSO680": {"title": "Seminar in Project Management", "description": "Project management is a core skill in today's fast-moving business environment.  Project managers are required to manage complex, time- pressured projects and programs using advanced tools and techniques for maximum effect.  Through this course, the students will learn advanced methods to initiate, plan and control projects. They will gain experience planning complex projects using both manual and PC-based tools.", "credits": "3"}, "QSO690": {"title": "Topics in Operations Management", "description": "This course is designed to prepare students to function as high-impact manufacturing and/or service managers.  The course theme is Total Quality Management and focuses on manufacturing systems, quality controls and inventory management with the goal of finding constant approaches to productivity improvement through in-depth investigation of JIT and OPT and their adaptability to manufacturing and service systems.", "credits": "3"}, "QSO700": {"title": "Operations and Project Management Capstone", "description": "This capstone course is the culminating experience for the MS in Operations and Project Management program. The aim of the capstone is to assess students' ability to synthesize and integrate the knowledge and skills they have developed throughout their coursework, rather than introducing new concepts. This course is structured to support student success in fulfilling program requirements.", "credits": "3"}, "QSO710": {"title": "Internship in Operations/Project Management", "description": "This course will enable the School of Business graduate students to gain valuable work experience within the operations or project environment.  The objective is to give the students an opportunity for practical application of operations/project management concepts and techniques learned in the classes and complement the course work.", "credits": "3"}}, "Reading": {"RDG503C": {"title": "Emerging and Early Literacy Development K-4", "description": "This course will examine several major theoretical perspectives on literacy development from Kindergarten through 4th grade. Students will explore literacy environments that encourage the development of reading, writing, listening and speaking in the early elementary classroom. Students will also learn a variety of effective strategies for the instruction and assessment of reading and writing in the early elementary classroom. Differentiating instruction to meet the needs of students from diverse backgrounds will be integrated into the course content.", "credits": "3"}, "RDG503NC": {"title": "Emerging and Early Literacy Development K-4", "description": "This course will examine several major theoretical perspectives on literacy development from Kindergarten through 4th grade. Students will explore literacy environments that encourage the development of reading, writing, listening and speaking in the early elementary classroom. Students will also learn a variety of effective strategies for the instruction and assessment of reading and writing in the early elementary classroom. Differentiating instruction to meet the needs of students from diverse backgrounds will be integrated into the course content.", "credits": "3"}, "RDG504C": {"title": "Content Area Literacy Grades 4-8", "description": "In this course, students study effective practices that support the development of reading comprehension and writing strategies for content area subjects in grades 4-8. The course focuses on the strategies that enable students read and write about non-fiction. Students will also examine ways to address the particular needs of students with diverse language, cultural and learning requirements.", "credits": "3"}, "RDG504NC": {"title": "Content Area Literacy Grades 4-8", "description": "In this course, students study effective practices that support the development of reading comprehension and writing strategies for content area subjects in grades 4-8. The course focuses on the strategies that enable students read and write about non-fiction. Students will also examine ways to address the particular needs of students with diverse language, cultural and learning requirements.", "credits": "3"}, "RDG531C": {"title": "Literature for Children Pre-K-8", "description": "This course will include an in-depth study of literary genre and categories found in children's literature, preschool through intermediate levels. Students will read and analyze literature according to a set of established criteria; explore the work of noteworthy authors, poets and illustrators; and be introduced to a variety of strategies for integrating literature into the curriculum and for encouraging students to become lifelong readers.", "credits": "3"}, "RDG531NC": {"title": "Literature for Children Pre-K-8", "description": "This course will include an in-depth study of literary genre and categories found in children's literature, preschool through intermediate levels. Students will read and analyze literature according to a set of established criteria; explore the work of noteworthy authors, poets and illustrators; and be introduced to a variety of strategies for integrating literature into the curriculum and for encouraging students to become lifelong readers.", "credits": "3"}, "RDG532": {"title": "Young Adult Literature", "description": "This course is a focus on literature designed for the adolescent reader.  Students read examples of adolescent fiction, interview adolescents about their selections, study criteria for selection and evaluation of writing done for or by adolescents, and learn strategies for teaching adolescents.", "credits": "3"}, "RDG535": {"title": "Content Area Literacy Grades 5-12", "description": "This course focuses on the development of reading and writing skills in support of the content areas in grades 5-12. Students will become familiar with effective practices to support the development of literacy strategies for students on the secondary level.", "credits": "3"}, "RDG582": {"title": "Assessing and Instructing Students with Literacy Difficulty", "description": "This course presents methods and materials to assess the needs and plan instructional interventions for students with literacy difficulties.  Students will learn to analyze and interpret formal and informal literacy assessments and use instructional techniques to improve literacy in students with a range of literacy difficulties (K-12).  This course includes an examination of literacy development among diverse learners.", "credits": "3"}, "RDG701": {"title": "Reading Internship: K-4", "description": "Students will complete a one credit reading internship that covers field-based literacy experiences at the elementary level at the conclusion of all course work.  This course of study is designed for students to observe, interview, and experience literacy program planning, operation, and management in grades K-4.", "credits": "1"}, "RDG702": {"title": "Reading Internship: 5-8", "description": "Students will complete a one credit reading internship that covers field-based literacy experiences at the middle school level at the conclusion of all coursework.  This course of study is designed for students to observe, interview, and experience literacy program planning, operation, and management in grades 5-8.", "credits": "1"}, "RDG703": {"title": "Reading Internship: 9-12", "description": "Students will complete a one credit reading internship that covers field-based literacy experiences at the high school level at the conclusion of all course work.  This course of study is designed for students to observe, interview, and experience literacy program planning, operation, and management in grades 9-12.", "credits": "1"}}, "Science": {"SCI100": {"title": "Perspectives in the Natural Sciences", "description": "This introductory course serves as an entry point into the natural sciences which concentrates on the natural world that both surrounds us and includes us. Students explore the big ideas in natural science as well as the methods that the field employs to solve problems. The course emphasizes and explores empirical modes of study as a way of looking at the world and aims to foster science literate citizens.", "credits": "3"}, "SCI200": {"title": "Applied Natural Sciences", "description": "This applied course actively involves students in the process of science and builds upon foundational natural science concepts in introductory survey courses. Students have the opportunity to engage in inquiry based learning which utilizes natural science methodologies and apply these toward problem solving skills in contemporary topics.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Issues of the Information Age"}, "SCI207": {"title": "Atmospheric Science", "description": "This course will focus on the fundamental principles of the physics, chemistry, and fluid dynamics underlying weather and climate. Additionally, the continual movement of weather and its associated elements, and the development of climate change will be addressed.", "credits": "3"}, "SCI212": {"title": "Principles of Physical Science I", "description": "Various concepts within the physical sciences are discussed ranging from the teachings of Aristotle to the theories of Einstein.  Topics include the influence of the scientific method in generating knowledge, the contributions of Galileo, Copernicus, Newton, Kepler and others concerning energy, forces, and motion, gravity, the solar system, and cosmology and relativity.", "credits": "3"}, "SCI215": {"title": "Contemporary Health", "description": "This course exposes students to the three major dimensions of health -- physical, emotional and social.  Health, nutrition, substance abuse, infectious diseases and stress management are among the issues that will be discussed.  Students will learn to intelligently relate health knowledge to the social issues of our day.  For students on program plans/catalogs prior to 2012-13; this course does not satisfy the university core science requirement.", "credits": "3"}, "SCI218": {"title": "Natural Resources", "description": "This class will introduce the concept of natural resources by studying topics such as land, soil, rangeland, forest, water, atmosphere, minerals, and energy.  The management, use, and environmental impacts associated with these resources will also be studied.  Emphasis will be placed on the United States within the context of the global environment.", "credits": "3"}, "SCI219": {"title": "Environmental Issues", "description": "This course covers a variety of environmental topics in a manner specifically designed for the non-science major. It provides a fundamental understanding of the various processes necessary to support life on Earth and examines how human activities and attitudes (individual, traditional, cultural and others) generate environmental issues that threaten these processes. Topics include ecology, populations, agriculture, desertification and deforestation, water and ocean pollution, air pollution including ozone depletion and acid rain, global climate change, natural resource depletion, solid and hazardous wastes, energy including fossil fuels and nuclear power, economics and sustainability. ", "credits": "3"}, "SCI220": {"title": "Energy and Society", "description": "This course surveys the various forms of energy available to our industrial society.  The environmental impact and depletion of each energy form is discussed with emphasis on the development of clean and inexhaustible alternative sources for the home and business.  Topics include traditional and renewable energy sources, greenhouse effects, transpiration, nuclear power, and economies.", "credits": "3"}, "SCI225": {"title": "Spatial Awareness", "description": "This course will examine the study, use, and design of map formats and specialized products such as fence-diagrams and cross-sections, as well as symbology, coordinate systems, and how maps record the historical patterns of human behavior. The course will also review maps as a tool to analyze human activity and societal development, and include important aspects of map data collection, processing, the Global Positioning System (GPS), quantitative mapping, and GIS-based mapmaking techniques. Additionally, students will review how humans process the concept of space.", "credits": "3"}, "SCI310": {"title": "Geostatistics and Data Analysis", "description": "This course will review geostatistical methods for their use in the spatial analysis of geological and environmental data.  Students will explore the application of geostatistics for the description of spatial patterns and identification of scales of variability, spatial interpolation, and stochastic modeling of environmental attributes, and the creation of risk maps and their use in geoscientific decision making.", "credits": "3"}, "SCI320": {"title": "Geosciences Methodologies", "description": "This course will explore the scientific methodology, empirical reasoning, and specific application of research methods in the geosciences. Students will explore key instrumentation and their application in laboratory settings, as well as survey techniques, sample collection, and elementary modeling.", "credits": "3"}, "SCI333": {"title": "Waste: Sources, Reduction, & Remediation", "description": "Waste is a major issue in nearly all aspects of society and understanding it is essential when considering the environment and sustainability. This class will focus on how waste is produced, how to reduce this pollution and how to clean it up once it is released.  In addition to the physical science, we will examine the impact of waste on the economy, society and public health.", "credits": "3"}, "SCI350": {"title": "Leadership and Ethics in the Geosciences", "description": "As professionals, students will be expected to use their knowledge and skills to enhance understanding of Earth for the well-being of society and the environment. As such, this course will focus on leadership and ethics as it relates to the practice of the geosciences. Topics will include project management techniques related to scheduling and budgeting projects, group dynamics, organizational behavior, and compliance.", "credits": "3"}, "SCI360": {"title": "Environmental Science Experiential Learning", "description": "Participate in an experiential learning elective course that focuses on professional development, certification preparation or professional practice opportunities. Explore and learn new tools and technologies that help you hone your real-world technical knowledge, skills and abilities. This course requires a minimum of 60 hours in the learning experience and may be taken for credit a maximum of two times.", "credits": "3"}, "SCI425": {"title": "Geoscientific Research Methods", "description": "This is the pre-capstone course for Geosciences majors. Through the emphasis in this course on the acquisition and integration of geoscientific research, students will learn to synthesize knowledge and skills from prior program coursework to develop a research project in a chosen area of specialization. This course focuses on helping students propose a topic for research, conduct preliminary research, and develop a capstone research proposal. This course prepares students for the formal capstone submission in the following course, Geosciences Capstone.", "credits": "3"}, "SCI489": {"title": "Geosciences Capstone", "description": "This capstone course is the culminating experience for the B.S. in Geosciences program. The aim of the capstone is to assess students\u2019 ability to synthesize and integrate the knowledge and skills they have developed throughout their coursework, rather than introducing new concepts. This course extends students\u2019 research proposals created in Geoscientific Research Methods into a formal capstone project and is structured to support student success in fulfilling program requirements.", "credits": "3"}}, "Social Science": {"SCS100": {"title": "Perspectives in the Social Sciences", "description": "How do social scientists examine issues impacting human behavior This course will focus on the questions social scientists ask in their research of individuals, families, and larger society, as well as how social scientific inquiry has developed over time. This exploration of social science will focus on the ways in which researchers consider behavioral phenomenon and use research to study various concepts. Students will examine the relevance of social science to current issues, develop evidence-based questions about human behavior, and explore basic social scientific research approaches.", "credits": "3"}, "SCS200": {"title": "Applied Social Sciences", "description": "Social scientists consider a number of factors when deciding to invest time and resources into investigating a problem.  Students engage in inquiry based learning by selecting a current issue and exploring it from the perspective of social scientists (psychologist, sociologist, anthropologist, etc.).  Students use a systematic approach to engage in an evidence-informed investigation pertaining to a current issue.", "credits": "3"}, "SCS224": {"title": "Social Science Research Methods", "description": "This course offers a broad introduction to research methods in the social sciences, including surveys, case studies, experiments, and quasi-experiments.  Students learn to spot design flaws in research intended to generate scientifically sound conclusions about social phenomena, and to evaluate critically the interpretations of social science research results by third-party observers, such as reporters. Students also learn how to draft a research proposal that would satisfy the requirements of peer review within the community of professional social scientists.", "credits": "3"}, "SCS444": {"title": "Capstone Colloquium", "description": "This colloquium serves as the capstone course for students in the sociology, law and politics, and environmental management majors.  Students learn from their instructor and from each other as they apply the knowledge and skills acquired in their other course work to a directed research project in the appropriate discipline or field. Prerequisite:  Senior standing in the sociology, law and politics, or environmental management major.", "credits": "3"}, "SCS490": {"title": "Social Science Internship", "description": "0 - 15", "credits": ""}, "SCS501": {"title": "Foundations in Statistics", "description": "The focus of this course is to enable students to develop a foundation of basic statistical literacy. Students will be able to assess the role of statistics in quantitative research and mixed methodologies, as well as develop the competency to perform basic statistical calculations. An awareness of the relationship between computation and interpretation will be addressed. Students will focus on the analysis of real-world data and research situations to illustrate the process of interpreting the meaning underlying the data, and how statistics can be utilized to address important questions.", "credits": "3"}, "SCS502": {"title": "Foundations in Research Methods", "description": "In this course, students will examine applied aspects of research methods and experimental design at the graduate level, which includes qualitative, quantitative, and mixed methods that are commonly utilized in social science research. Students will investigate procedures used to gather and analyze data and acquire real-world skills required to design and conduct research in future courses.", "credits": "3"}}, "Society Human Resources Management": {"SHRM500": {"title": "Society for Human Resource Management Certification Preparation", "description": "Southern New Hampshire University, in partnership with the Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM), offers a non-credit SHRM Learning System Course designed to assist human resource professionals in preparing for the PHR and SPHR certification exams. Available online in an 8-week format as well as an executive on campus workshop series, HR executives and training professionals will be taught by faculty who are also human resource practitioners and subject matter experts. This course is appropriate for undergraduates as well as graduate students employed in the HR and Training fields seeking HR Management certification.", "credits": "0"}}, "Sociology": {"SOC112": {"title": "Introduction to Sociology", "description": "Is one's identity individually or socially constructed Are all stereotypes invalid or can there be value in generalizations Is globalization widening the gaps or homogenizing the world In this course, students will grapple with these essential questions in examining the world through the lens of a sociologist. Sociology offers an empirically-based methodology for critically evaluating society-from issues of individual agency to the roots of global institutions. Culture, norm stratification, systems, structure, social institutions, social change, the organization of social behavior and its relationship to society and social conditions are emphasized. Students will challenge their own preconceived notions and evaluate these constructs in terms of their relevancy to contemporary issues and problems.", "credits": "3"}, "SOC213": {"title": "Sociology of Social Problems", "description": "Students in this course analyze contemporary social problems in America and other societies. Issues include economic limitations, class and poverty, race and ethnic relations, sexism, ageism, and environmental and population concerns. ", "credits": "3"}, "SOC291": {"title": "Experiential Learning", "description": "A course designed to explore community services to individuals and groups through a volunteer experience that involves observation and participation in activities.  Classroom experiences are geared to giving the student both exposure to and an understanding of services available in the field today.", "credits": "3"}, "SOC317": {"title": "Sociology of the Family", "description": "This course is a sociological examination of the family institution in America and other societies.  Traditional and nontraditional family patterns are studied to provide students with a structure for understanding sex, marriage, family and kinship systems.  ", "credits": "3"}, "SOC318": {"title": "Sustainable Communities", "description": "How do we build a society fit for living  This course looks to the field of environmentally  sustainable community development (ESCD) for answers to this question.  Students explore the principles and practices of ESCD using pattern-mapping of community needs, site visits, and other experiential learning tools that turn communities into classrooms, and bring the challenge of building environmentally sustainable communities to life.  In the process, students identify assumptions that lead to unsustainable social practices, and develop the skills necessary to help create livable local landscapes and sustainable local futures through individual and community action.", "credits": "3"}, "SOC320": {"title": "Sociology of Gender", "description": "The examination of gender in society.  Students will explore the social construction of gender, gender identity development, sexuality and power, and other aspects concerning the meanings and implications of being 'male', 'female', or 'transgender'.", "credits": "3"}, "SOC324": {"title": "Sociology of Crime and Violence", "description": "The course examines the nature, causes, and consequences of crime and violence to a society. Applying a legal and sociological perspective, the course examines: 1) the structure of the law and the criminal justice system; 2) the nature and causation of criminal behavior; and 3) the various types of crime and criminality.", "credits": "3"}, "SOC325": {"title": "Sociological Perspectives", "description": "Sociology is the study of social life and behavior. Sociologists study societies by researching social groups, patterns, interactions, and institutions. We are interested in how they work, how they change, and their connection to people's lives. This course will build on what students learned in SOC-112 Introduction to Sociology. It will engage students in a discussion of what we know theoretically in the discipline of sociology through the work of key \"voices\" in the sociological tradition. The course intends to cultivate your ability to see social things with the hope that, as Peter Berger states, \"things are not what they seem\". In other words, in this class students will learn to rethink assumptions about social facets of society that are commonly taken for granted.", "credits": "3"}, "SOC326": {"title": "Sociology of Deviant Behavior", "description": "This course is a sociological analysis of the nature, cause, and societal reactions to deviant behavior, including mental illness, suicide, drug and alcohol addiction and sexual deviation. ", "credits": "3"}, "SOC328": {"title": "Sociology of Aging", "description": "Students in this course examine the basic social processes and problems of aging.  Social and psychological issues and issues involved with death and dying are discussed. ", "credits": "3"}, "SOC330": {"title": "Sociology of Minority Relations", "description": "This course examines minority relations in America and other societies.  It focuses on the nature of minority-dominated interaction, the sources and operation of prejudice and discrimination and the typical reactions of minorities to their disadvantaged positions. ", "credits": "3"}}, "Southern New Hampshire University": {"SNHU100": {"title": "Pro Seminar", "description": "This course is for continuing education students re-entering the educational system.  Topics covered in this seminar include self-knowledge, establishing personal goals, developing effective study skills, and practice in communications skills.", "credits": "3"}, "SNHU107": {"title": "Success Strategies for Online Learning", "description": "This course focuses on student success strategies for students who are new to higher education or online learning. Skill areas include critical thinking, self-advocacy and support services, and the empowerment of students to utilize their strengths in order to improve the likelihood of academic success.", "credits": "The goal name associated with this course is Approaching Complex Challenges"}, "SNHU290": {"title": "Experiential Learning", "description": "Clarify career goals and enhance current skills through experiential learning. Develop real-world knowledge to be better prepared for the competitive job market This course requires a minimum of 60 hours in the learning experience and may be taken for credit a maximum of two times.", "credits": "3"}, "SNHU495": {"title": "Internship", "description": "Enhance marketability through the application of field specific learning to practice. Examine shared experiences with students from multiple disciplines while applying coursework to real-world situations. This course requires a minimum of 150 internship hours and may be taken for credit a maximum of two times. ", "credits": "3"}, "SNHU501": {"title": "Introduction to Graduate Studies", "description": "This course is designed as an introduction to the skills necessary for successfully addressing the scholarly challenges of graduate school and professional practice. Students will explore topics such as taking ownership of academic and professional success, goal setting, time management, critical thinking, studying in an online environment, techniques for developing a sound scholarly argument, and the use of evidence and resources to conduct and present research.", "credits": "3"}, "SNHU690": {"title": "Internship", "description": "Enhance marketability through the application of field-specific learning to practice. Examine shared experiences with students from multiple disciplines while applying coursework to real-world situations. This course requires a minimum of 150 internship hours.", "credits": "3"}}, "Spanish": {"LSP111": {"title": "Beginning Spanish I", "description": "Designed for students with no previous knowledge of Spanish; acquisition of first-semester, first- year proficiency in speaking, understanding, reading and writing Spanish with use of appropriate cultural and social contexts.", "credits": "3"}, "LSP112": {"title": "Beginning Spanish II", "description": "3", "credits": ""}}, "Special Education": {"SPED501C": {"title": "Students with Exceptionalities", "description": "Students will be introduced to the issues related to children with disabilities and the educational implications for participation within the general education classroom will be examined. The course includes the history of Special Education, as well as current trends and research. Federal and state legislation will be reviewed as well as the NH State Standards for Children with Disabilities. Students will review the Individuals with Disabilities Act as it relates to the Elementary Secondary Education Act (ESEA) reauthorized as No Child Left Behind (NCLB), the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) including title II of the ADA and section 504 and The Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1973, as amended.", "credits": "3"}, "SPED501NC": {"title": "Students with Exceptionalities", "description": "Students will be introduced to the issues related to children with disabilities and the educational implications for participation within the general education classroom will be examined. The course includes the history of Special Education, as well as current trends and research. Federal and state legislation will be reviewed as well as the NH State Standards for Children with Disabilities. Students will review the Individuals with Disabilities Act as it relates to the Elementary Secondary Education Act (ESEA) reauthorized as No Child Left Behind (NCLB), the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) including title II of the ADA and section 504 and The Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1973, as amended.", "credits": "3"}, "SPED520": {"title": "Assessment of Student Performance", "description": "This course is designed to provide an overview of practical performance assessments that can be used to measure student progress in the general education setting. Learners will become familiar with a repertoire of authentic assessments and knowledge of progress monitoring tools including but not limited to formative and summative assessments, diagnostic tools, performance tasks, criteria checklists, rubrics, student portfolios and the use of multiple sources of data in measuring student performance. The course will examine a variety of accountability measures including standardized tests, observation, curriculum based measures, utilization of Response to Intervention (RTI) as a system for planning, instruction, progress monitoring and interventions. The role Professional Learning Community Models (PLC's) in targeting both behavioral and academic achievement will be explored. The overall goal of the course is to prepare educators to utilize assessment data in the design of classroom instruction and monitoring of student progress for a broad range of students.", "credits": "3"}, "SPED525C": {"title": "Critical Issues/Students with Disabilities", "description": "This course will analyze various disabilities and determine how they impact student learning within the general curriculum. Students will examine strategies and techniques (including assistive technology) to assist the student in the general education classroom. Tiered support systems will be discussed as a general education instructional framework that can serve the needs of all students. The role of the family and school as partners will be developed as a critical technique to serve the needs of students with disabilities, as well as the importance of facilitating effective meetings and communication efforts that must be part of the role of the special educator.", "credits": "3"}, "SPED525NC": {"title": "Critical Issues/Students with Disabilities", "description": "This course will analyze various disabilities and determine how they impact student learning within the general curriculum. Students will examine strategies and techniques (including assistive technology) to assist the student in the general education classroom. Tiered support systems will be discussed as a general education instructional framework that can serve the needs of all students. The role of the family and school as partners will be developed as a critical technique to serve the needs of students with disabilities, as well as the importance of facilitating effective meetings and communication efforts that must be part of the role of the special educator.", "credits": "3"}, "SPED526C": {"title": "Multisensory Literacy Strategies", "description": "This course is designed to help educators become more knowledgeable about how literacy develops and to understand why research-based, structured language strategies are necessary for teaching reading to students of diverse abilities. The course will demonstrate that reading is not an intuitive skill and that educators need to develop appropriate multisensory instructional strategies for the student who is either at risk or is a struggling reader. The overall goals are to introduce the scientific rationales and specific instructional methods for teaching the major components of literacy: phonological awareness, phonics, decoding and fluency, vocabulary, comprehension and writing.", "credits": "3"}, "SPED540C": {"title": "Classroom and Behavior Management", "description": "This course focuses on the principles and approaches that foster a positive learning environment and help to reduce the challenging behaviors that often confront teachers in the classroom. The course will provide both the theoretical foundations of behavior as well as the evidence-based strategies that have proved most effective for classroom management. The concept of positive behavioral interventions and supports will be explored, including the preventive steps that can be used to avert behaviors from escalating. Educators will also become knowledgeable about the federal requirements and guidelines for the discipline of students with disabilities under I.D.E.A. In addition, the course will emphasize the critical connection between student behavior, classroom management and well-designed instructional practices.", "credits": "3"}, "SPED540NC": {"title": "Classroom and Behavior Management", "description": "This course focuses on the principles and approaches that foster a positive learning environment and help to reduce the challenging behaviors that often confront teachers in the classroom. The course will provide both the theoretical foundations of behavior as well as the evidence-based strategies that have proved most effective for classroom management. The concept of positive behavioral interventions and supports will be explored, including the preventive steps that can be used to avert behaviors from escalating. Educators will also become knowledgeable about the federal requirements and guidelines for the discipline of students with disabilities under I.D.E.A. In addition, the course will emphasize the critical connection between student behavior, classroom management and well-designed instructional practices.", "credits": "3"}, "SPED580C": {"title": "Special Education Assessment", "description": "Students will gain an awareness of procedures involved in the evaluation of students to determine eligibility for special education services. Students will be introduced to a variety of assessment tools and gain an understanding of what the tests measure and how they are used in the identification of specific disability categories. The course includes theoretical and legal foundations, the characteristics of learners with and without disabilities across cognitive, social, emotional and sensory areas. Students will recognize the impact of family and cultural backgrounds on classroom and test performance. Students will become familiar with the administration, scoring, interpretation and reporting of selected diagnostic testing used in special education evaluations.", "credits": "3"}, "SPED580NC": {"title": "Special Education Assessment", "description": "Students will gain an awareness of procedures involved in the evaluation of students to determine eligibility for special education services. Students will be introduced to a variety of assessment tools and gain an understanding of what the tests measure and how they are used in the identification of specific disability categories. The course includes theoretical and legal foundations, the characteristics of learners with and without disabilities across cognitive, social, emotional and sensory areas. Students will recognize the impact of family and cultural backgrounds on classroom and test performance. Students will become familiar with the administration, scoring, interpretation and reporting of selected diagnostic testing used in special education evaluations.", "credits": "3"}, "SPED601": {"title": "Content-Based Literacy", "description": "This course is designed to help educators become more skilled and versatile in their application of teaching strategies within the regular education classroom, including discussion formats, varied questioning techniques, flexible groupings and differentiated instructional methods. Learners will understand the rationale and importance of using research-based strategies that enable a wide range of learners to access the Core Curriculum in general education classrooms. The course will examine curriculum and instructional design in relationship to students' diverse learning styles and cognitive, readiness and cultural differences. The overall goal is prepare educators to design and demonstrate lessons that incorporate engaging learning materials and methods and varied assessment tools that enable a broad range of students to achieve understanding, application and mastery of key curriculum concepts and skills.", "credits": "3"}, "SPED610": {"title": "Executive Function and Study Skills", "description": "Students with language-based learning disabilities often struggle with the cognitive and self-regulating tasks associated with executive function. These tasks range from organizing time, materials, information; preparing for work, managing frustration, accessing memory and self-monitoring one's progress and work. This course introduces educators to research-based strategies that increase and improve executive function through the use of effective study skills. While the course will explore relevant research on language-based learning disabilities and executive function, the emphasis will be placed on the practical teaching skills drawn from Landmark's Six Teaching Principles. These principles, which will be integrated throughout the course, encourage teachers to provide structured opportunities for students to achieve success, use multiple instructional modalities, create skill-based micro unit tasks, ensure student skill automatization through practice and review, provide models, and include the student in the learning process.", "credits": "3"}, "SPED624C": {"title": "Professional Collaboration", "description": "This course has been designed to assist special education teachers in examining their consultative roles and responsibilities when working in inclusive settings. Students will be introduced to, and examine the nature of collaboration, developing relationships between general and special educators, and paraprofessionals. The focus of the course will be on practical application and establishing strong relationships between general and special educators. The course also includes facilitating engagement of parents, and families as well as appropriate community agencies. The purpose of the course is to prepare special educators to interact and collaborate with a variety of stakeholders that are typically associated with students placed in inclusive settings. In order for special education teachers to be successful they must have the skills and ability to support students in the general education setting which means collaborative interaction, decision making, accountability and teamwork. Knowledge of general education curriculum requirements, related assessments, researched based interventions and use of data are all topics that will be covered as part of this course.", "credits": "3"}, "SPED624NC": {"title": "Professional Collaboration", "description": "This course has been designed to assist special education teachers in examining their consultative roles and responsibilities when working in inclusive settings. Students will be introduced to, and examine the nature of collaboration, developing relationships between general and special educators, and paraprofessionals. The focus of the course will be on practical application and establishing strong relationships between general and special educators. The course also includes facilitating engagement of parents, and families as well as appropriate community agencies. The purpose of the course is to prepare special educators to interact and collaborate with a variety of stakeholders that are typically associated with students placed in inclusive settings. In order for special education teachers to be successful they must have the skills and ability to support students in the general education setting which means collaborative interaction, decision making, accountability and team work. Knowledge of general education curriculum requirements, related assessments, researched based interventions and use of data are all topics that will be covered as part of this course.", "credits": "3"}, "SPED630": {"title": "Expressive Language-Skills and Writing", "description": "This course focuses on the strategies and skills for supporting expressive language skills for students with dyslexia and other language-based learning disabilities, primarily for writing. The course introduces the concepts of scaffolding the writing process, using a hierarchy of skills to build appropriate foundational skills sets, and understanding the hidden demands of writing for students with language-based learning disabilities. Students in this course will draw from relevant research on expressive language arts to develop practical teaching strategies for their own learning environments.", "credits": "3"}, "SPED635": {"title": "Reading Interventions for Students with LBLD", "description": "This course provides an overview of effective reading interventions drawn from research-based practice for students with dyslexia and other language-based learning disabilities. Students in the course will integrate appropriate assessment strategies, engage with the current research analyses on reading and language-based learning disabilities (LBLD), and develop practical strategies for supporting learners in developing the phonemic awareness, sound-symbol relationships, and decoding patterns that improve reading fluency.", "credits": "3"}, "SPED640": {"title": "Language-Based Learning Environments", "description": "Creating a supportive, effective, and well-structured language-based classroom is a key strategy for supporting students with language-based learning disabilities, though the principles apply to effective instruction for a variety of learners. This course will provide an in-depth analysis of teaching principles and academic planning strategies implemented successfully as well as other K-12 language-based environments. Emphasis will be placed on the establishment of proper classroom resources as well as how to arrange them within the physical classroom space.", "credits": "3"}, "SPED650": {"title": "Social-Emotional Competencies and Students with LBLD", "description": "Students with language-based learning disabilities often exhibit deficits in social skills, therefore a structured approach to developing proficiency in essential social and emotional competencies becomes an important part of a teachers' skill set. This course focuses on Social and Emotional Learning (SEL) as an essential piece in student development. This course will also provide an overview of the concept of Social and Emotional Learning (SEL) derived from evidenced based instruction and research. Emphasis will be placed on developing individual strategies for students and establishing a classroom culture based on SEL practices.", "credits": "3"}, "SPED680C": {"title": "IEP Development", "description": "This course will give students the opportunity to review special education law, with an emphasis upon NH Rules for the Education of Students with Disabilities and 2004 Reauthorization of IDEA. Course expectations will require heavy emphasis upon IEP development through examination of required elements of Individual Education Programs (IEPs) and participation on mock IEP Teams. Students will be introduced to state and federal special education rules and regulations, practical application of the law, ethical codes and related professional standards. The course will require working through mock IEP team experiences in the development of such plans. This will require knowledge of curriculum standards, review of mock student records, participation in mock IEP/Placement meetings, development of mock IEPs and the identification of methods for monitoring progress. Students will also review current cases and trends in special education law, analyze and interpret case studies and learn how to research both statutory and case law. Time will also be spent on review of Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and The No Child Left Behind Act of 2001 and the impact of such law upon students with educational disabilities.", "credits": "3"}, "SPED701": {"title": "Internship Grades K-6", "description": "Internship course for Special Education for grades K-6.", "credits": "3"}, "SPED702": {"title": "Internship Grades 7-12", "description": "Internship course for Special Education for grades 7-12.", "credits": "3"}}, "Sport Management": {"SPT111": {"title": "Introduction to Sport Management", "description": "This introductory course emphasizes the management principles related to the business of sports.  It includes personnel, programs, marketing, media, financial management and an overview of career possibilities in this growing field.", "credits": "3"}, "SPT200": {"title": "Sport Business", "description": "This course educates students on the business of the sport industry, exposing students to functional areas such as sales, financing, funding, sponsorships, and human resources. Establishing distinctions between sport products across varying sports and levels within the management of the business is taught.", "credits": "3"}, "SPT201": {"title": "Governance/Management of Sport Organizations", "description": "This course is designed to provide students with a basic understanding of the role of governance structures and management in sport organizations. The primary aim is to familiarize students with a basic understanding of organizational structures used in the management and governance of sport. Topics and issues discussed will involve organizational theory, behavior, and governance structures used in amateur, professional, and international sport organizations; and to provide students with an overview of the sport industry, and the issues encountered by managers of sport organizations and how management techniques can be applied to effectively address these issues.", "credits": "3"}, "SPT208": {"title": "Sport Marketing", "description": "Students study current sports marketing problems and apply marketing techniques to develop an effective sports marketing plan. Writing Intensive Course.", "credits": "3"}, "SPT307": {"title": "Sport Law", "description": "This course examines the legal issues prominent in the world of sport.  The legal liability and responsibilities of coaches, athletic administrators, and sport managers at the professional, college and community levels will be discussed.", "credits": "3"}, "SPT319": {"title": "Sport Sales and Promotions", "description": "This course provides a cross-disciplinary approach to a variety of marketing, sales and promotions issues that confront sport managers. ", "credits": "3"}, "SPT320": {"title": "Media/Public Relations in Sport", "description": "This course is designed to provide students with an understanding of the role of media and public relations in the sport industry.  The primary aim is to familiarize students with media relations, public relations, and community relations in sport organizations and how these areas are integrated into the field of sport and the engagement of interdisciplinary thinking.", "credits": "3"}, "SPT333": {"title": "Sport, Society, and Ethics", "description": "This course examines the major issues and controversies of sport in society.  Students will develop an appreciation of the ways sport in society contributes to analyzing and understanding human behavior in sports contexts; and a basic understanding of the theories and principles related to socio-cultural issues and ethics and morality in the sport industry.", "credits": "3"}, "SPT340": {"title": "Practicum in Sport Management", "description": "This seminar combined with field experience will provide an opportunity to apply theories, concepts, and terminology into a practical experience in the field of sport management. Specifically, this experience will provide the student with a mentor and colleagues to learn about management, leadership, decision making, communication, customer service, and to develop as a future professional in the field. Students are required to complete satisfactory work under the direct supervision of a qualified professional and attend scheduled practicum seminars.", "credits": "3 - 6"}, "SPT350": {"title": "Sales within Sport", "description": "Explore the critical skill of selling within the sport industry, including sales strategies, promotions, negotiating, communication and interpersonal skills, sales process, and creating sales pitches.", "credits": "3"}, "SPT360": {"title": "Brand Management", "description": "Learn how to develop and drive a brand through social media, advertising, marketing, player recognition and the various verticals within a business, with a focus on gaining market share and increased customer loyalty through consumer insights, strategic thinking, and innovation.", "credits": "3"}, "SPT401": {"title": "Sport Facilities Management", "description": "The elements of managing sport facilities, including arenas, stadiums and athletic complexes, form the content of this course. ", "credits": "3"}, "SPT402": {"title": "Sport Revenue", "description": "This course provides students with a comprehensive understanding of the many traditional and innovative revenue acquisition methods available to sport organizations. Students will be exposed to conventional income sources, including tax support, ticket sales, concessions and fund raising, and will examine more recent innovations related to licensing sport products, media sales and corporate sponsorship. ", "credits": "3"}, "SPT404": {"title": "Sport Agency", "description": "The basic goal of this course is to provide the student with an overview of the business of sport agencies.    As the sport industry has become more diverse, generating hundreds of billions of dollars per year in economic activity, the need has grown for player and brand representation to navigate the complexities and nuances of specific properties and contracts.  This class is designed to highlight some of the challenges in representing athletes and assist students in developing negotiating, marketing, and business strategy.", "credits": "3"}, "SPT425": {"title": "Sport Licensing/Strategic Alliances", "description": "This course will explore why and how sport licensing is used effectively in the global business of sport. Both theoretical and applied perspectives will be used. The course will examine the strategic rational and different forms of sports licensing and how sport managers can use sport licensing to lead their companies to achieve growth and other key objectives. Course content will include examining US and international sport leagues and how they administer their licensing programs. The course will cover the process of identification of licensing opportunities, selection of business partners, process of establishing a license agreement, international licensing and the management of licensing relationships. In addition, students will be introduced to strategic alliances with an emphasis on why and how domestic and international alliances may be used to achieve sport enterprise objectives.", "credits": "3"}, "SPT461": {"title": "Seminar in Sport Management (Capstone)", "description": "This course serves as the capstone course for the sport management major and concentration. Students will apply the knowledge and skills obtained from courses in order to solve problems that a sport manager is likely to encounter. Instructor permission required.", "credits": "3"}, "SPT465": {"title": "Global Sport Business", "description": "This course develops a basic theoretical and applied understanding of international business principles as applied to the global sport industry.  Several key areas of international business, as they relate to sport business, are explored including the scale, scope and organization of global sport, globalization, internationalization, cultural aspects, international marketing, financial/political/economic risk, human rights, ethical dimensions, role of media, technology/products, professional sport leagues and governance.  The course will be delivered from an entrepreneurial and business development perspective encouraging students to think and act strategically when considering sport business in a global context. Class discussions and exercises will focus on assisting the student in establishing a conceptual and applied understanding of these major content areas using relevant text, multi-media.  The outcomes will be to develop the skills necessary to function as a professional manager in the international sport business market place.  In addition, the student will be exposed to a team working environment in order to foster authentic management interaction skills.", "credits": "3"}, "SPT491": {"title": "Sport Management Internship", "description": "This closely supervised on-the-job training combines classroom theory with business experience.  Students spend one semester working in an environment where sport management practices and principles can be learned firsthand.", "credits": "0 - 15"}, "SPT492": {"title": "Sport Management Internship II", "description": "Internship continuation course for online students.", "credits": "3"}, "SPT501": {"title": "Research Methods in Sport Management", "description": "This course examines the methods and techniques used in research in sport management and the sport industry.  Including the basic aspects of reading, evaluating, and writing research; this course will explore the concepts developed in relevant literature as they apply to sport management. Topics include problem selection, literature review, instrumentation, methodology, statistical issues, and types of research in physical activity.", "credits": "3"}, "SPT510": {"title": "Sport and Society", "description": "Students investigate the interrelationships between sport, culture and society in an attempt to better understand the role and function of sport in contemporary society.  Students receive a broad overview of selected socio-cultural factors that influence participation in sports. Major ethical issues of sport in society will be explored.", "credits": "3"}, "SPT512": {"title": "Principles in Athletic Administration", "description": "This course provides the graduate student with an overview of the role and responsibilities of intercollegiate athletics; human resources; finance; governance; operations and the management, planning, organization and administration of interscholastic and recreational athletics.", "credits": "3"}, "SPT525": {"title": "Sport Licensing and Strategic Alliances", "description": "The goal of this course is to develop a deep, working knowledge of sports licensing and strategic alliances and how they relate to the business of sports. We will fully explore the process of identifying and developing a sports licensing and/or strategic alliance strategy so the student will be enabled to apply this knowledge in a real business setting. By doing so a student as a future manager will better recognize opportunities that sports licensing and strategic alliances can potentially offer to their sport business. By developing this in an international context, a student will engender a global view of how sports licensing and strategic alliances are developed and implemented in harmony with overall firm strategy leading to increased shareholder value.", "credits": "3"}, "SPT565": {"title": "Internationalization of Sport Business", "description": "The Internationalization of Sport Business course will help to prepare the sport business manager for the exciting world of global sports.  The course is designed to thoroughly introduce the graduate student to the many facets of conducting sport business in the international marketplace. By using real life international sport business examples, students will garner a deeper understanding of the various complexities associated with conducting sport business in an international context.  Some of the key areas include culture, international marketing, financial/political/economic risk, ethical dimensions, role of media, technology/products, professional sport leagues and governance.", "credits": "3"}, "SPT600": {"title": "Management of Sport Organizations", "description": "This course focuses on the application of management concepts and theories to sports organizations and the sports industry.  It includes issues of organizational design, public policy, labor relations, collective bargaining, ethical issues in sport and the globalization of the sports industry.", "credits": "3"}, "SPT601": {"title": "Sport Facility Management and Operations", "description": "This course is designed to provide students with an understanding of the business of sport facilities and operations. Elements of managing sport facilities, including arenas, stadiums, and athletic complexes will form the content of this course. As well, students will focus on facility management and administration considerations, systematically moving through planning and design, organizational and operational concerns, personnel planning, financial management, program development and scheduling, risk management, and marketing. Also covered will be the operations of specific facility areas including maintenance, crowd control and security, box office management and concessions.", "credits": "3"}, "SPT608": {"title": "Sport Marketing and Media", "description": "This course examines the concepts and processes used in marketing and communications of a sport organization, at the college, professional or community level. Students will utilize the case study approach to analyze current marketing problems and techniques to develop an effective sport marketing and communications plan; with special emphasis placed on the unique aspect of sport products, markets, consumers, and media relations.", "credits": "3"}, "SPT610": {"title": "Sport Law", "description": "Students learn about the law as it applies to professional and amateur sport organizations.  The course includes the analysis of contracts, tort law, antitrust law, labor law and collective bargaining.", "credits": "3"}, "SPT612": {"title": "Advanced Topics/Athletic Administration", "description": "This course is designed to examine the current issues facing interscholastic athletic administrators. Information regarding the various components and activities in the organization and administration of athletic programs for prospective athletic administrators will be covered; including: recruitment, governance, compliance, and current research literature and research methods appropriate for administration athletics.", "credits": "3"}, "SPT620": {"title": "Finance and Economics of Sport", "description": "This course will provide students with an understanding of financial and economic theories and principles utilized in the sport industry. Topics will include the preparation of financial plans, strategic budgeting, capital and operating budgets, sources of revenue, economic theories, supply and demand concepts in the sport industry; economic impact, and other financial and economic theories pertinent to sport industry professionals.", "credits": "3"}, "SPT700": {"title": "Sport Management Capstone", "description": "This capstone course is the culminating experience for the M.S. in Sport Management program. The aim of the capstone is to assess students\u2019 ability to synthesize and integrate the knowledge and skills they have developed throughout their coursework, rather than introducing new concepts. This course is structured to support student success in fulfilling program requirements.", "credits": "3"}, "SPT710": {"title": "Internship", "description": "Internships are available for graduate students to enhance their educational experiences through appropriate, work-oriented activities in selected environments.", "credits": "3"}}, "Sustainability & Environmental Compliance": {"SEC510": {"title": "Environmental Issues", "description": "A fundamental understanding of the various processes necessary to support life on Earth. Examine how human activities and philosophies (individual, business, cultural, and others) generate environmental issues and threaten these processes, and offers sustainable alternatives to these activities.  Topics include ecology; populations; agriculture; desertification and deforestation; water and ocean pollution; air pollution, including ozone depletion and acid rain; global warming; natural resource depletion; solid and hazardous wastes; energy, including fossil fuels and nuclear power; economic implications; and sustainability.", "credits": "3"}, "SEC610": {"title": "Energy and Society", "description": "This course surveys the various forms of energy available to our industrial society.  The environmental impact and depletion of each energy form is discussed, with emphasis on the development of clean and inexhaustible alternative sources for the home and business.  Topics include traditional and renewable energy sources; electricity; the atmosphere, including greenhouse effects; transportation; nuclear power; and economic implications.", "credits": "3"}, "SEC620": {"title": "Environment Compliance/Sustainability", "description": "This course introduces students to a broad range of strategies used by both large and small businesses to achieve and maintain compliance with environmental laws and sustainability goals, with an emphasis on companies doing business in the United States.  Students learn the importance of environmental due diligence as a tool for minimizing acquired liabilities in business mergers and acquisitions; the value of environmental auditing as a means of identifying compliance and sustainability issues in ongoing business operations; and the power of both environmental management systems and environmental certification programs as strategies for achieving and maintaining environmental compliance and sustainability, and for securing a competitive advantage in a marketplace increasingly populated by sustainability-conscious consumers.", "credits": "3"}}, "Taxation": {"TAX650": {"title": "Federal Taxation of Individuals", "description": "This course studies the theory and practice of federal income taxation of individuals.", "credits": "3"}, "TAX655": {"title": "Federal Income Tax of Corporations and Partnerships", "description": "This course studies the theories and practices of income taxation of corporations and partnerships and excise tax on estates and gifts.", "credits": "3"}, "TAX660": {"title": "Tax Factors in Business Decisions", "description": "This course is an introduction to tax factors that are relevant in business and personal financial planning decisions. This includes regular and S corporations, partnerships, fiduciaries, tax shelters and tax research. This course is open only to non-accounting students. Background preparation: 6 credit hours in accounting or the equivalent.", "credits": "3"}, "TAX665": {"title": "Estate and Gift Taxation", "description": "This course deals with the federal taxation of gratuitous transfers during a taxpayer's lifetime and property transfers at death. After gaining knowledge of the relevant statutes, regulations and case law, the student will develop estate and gift planning strategies to address estate and gift planning aspects of business and life events.", "credits": "3"}, "TAX670": {"title": "Tax Research Methodology", "description": "Explore the methods and techniques of federal tax research. Learn the rules and procedures for representing clients before the Internal Revenue Service.", "credits": "3"}, "TAX700": {"title": "Special Topics in Taxation", "description": "This course offers an in-depth study of special topics in federal taxation. Major, contemporary problem areas of taxation are explored.", "credits": "3"}}, "Workplace Conflict Management": {"WCM510": {"title": "Negotiation/Advocacy in the Workplace", "description": "This course introduces the processes and practice of negotiating and advocating effectively in settings where continuation and strengthening of the relationship matter.  Course content will include the uses, strengths, and weaknesses of distributive and integrative bargaining; the sources and uses of power in negotiation; and gender and cultural influences on negotiation style and practice.", "credits": "3"}, "WCM610": {"title": "Introduction to Organizational Conflict Management", "description": "This survey course introduces the analysis, interpretation, and management of conflict in contemporary organizational settings. Using interdisciplinary lenses, the course explores systemic, interpersonal, and other causes of conflict; conflict's influence on workplace communication and decision-making; and the relationship between conflict, leadership, and career advancement.", "credits": "3"}, "WCM620": {"title": "Managing Difficult Conversations at Work", "description": "The art and practice of dialogue building is the act of engaging conflict effectively and transforming difficult conversations into better decisions, healthier work relationships, and stronger organizations. This course examines approaches for de-escalating conflict conversations, choosing if and when to intervene, tapping the creative potential in conflict, and creating workplace environments that foster constructive conflict engagement.", "credits": "3"}}}